Title: Questions & Answers by Maxwell Okoth
Video ID: KEbOMZTDRog
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KEbOMZTDRog
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
prophecy speaker says we will start with them in the next lesson. So this is the next lesson. Soon come I'm forgetting your name. You see I'm wondering but you'll be telling us your name first and then you ask how many do you welcome? Yes. Would you give him a mic of Yes, it's working. Good evening. My name is Baraka and I'm glad to be here. So, I'm much can say confused or uh what term can I use? Yes. But allow me read the book of John chapter 17 verse uh verse 15 before I ask my question. This Jesus praying I pray that thou should shouldest take them out of the world but that thou should keep them from the evil. So uh my question goes to uh the handle topic in the afternoon true education. All of us here I believe you are schooled and uh if not I don't know but for me personally I've uh finished campus 84 system and currently I'm looking for unemployment and uh in the presentations I heard that anyone working or schooling in Babylonian institution in the last days in which we are right now will uh all or parents taking their children to Babylonian schools or institutions will receive the mark of the beast. So I'm asking and this is a very serious question. The book of Daniel chapter one we see Daniel and his brothers taken to Babylon. Nemiah working as a cup bearer in uh in the king's palace. Yes, he was. Daniel and his brothers were in Babylonian king kingdom and they were working in the palace and yet they were faithful. We see Nemiah too working as a cup bearer in the king's palace. So I was asking myself as a saved member uh is it wrong to be employed for example I'm I'm a an accountant and a finance analyst if I'm employed in an institution uh in fact we were told that Babylon and the Rome as has taken over almost every institution sor even the government itself. See if I'm employed in any government institution or non-governmental institution. Is it wrong? That my first question. The second question uh in this room I know the PA system, the laptops, our phones, our dress codes, our everything are made from these institutions. the system, our phones and everything are made from all this. So I'm I'm a little bit confused. So I need much clarification that if indeed uh we are to reform in true education, what line a clear line will will we take or will I take personally? because maybe I've not learned much from other lessons but that was my first lesson and lastly if I get children if I'm married I'm not married if I be married my children what form like when the the seven adventist church began in in in 1863 there were institutions there were sanitariums there were schools in these last days one true god Do we have institutions? Do we have sanitariums? Because if I have a wife, my wife wants to be want to deliver. Will I not take her to a Babylonian oipital or any well will I take her my children all that when they are sick? Not let let me not speak of health reform but let let me speak of other institutions. So even the IT men here all of us we learn these skills there. Even Daniel and the brothers, they learn those skills. They Moses being trained in the king's palace. So that's my question. Thank you. Thank you. Answers the Bible three stories are spiritual. How many answers? 1 2 3 I ask you be short. Yes to the point. Happy happy Sunday. Happy Sunday. Uh thank you. Uh I want to be short and precise but I want to say this as I begin. Let the Bible speak. Uh he has given a case study of Nemiah. Daniel that is where I want us to begin from. Uh if you go to the book of Daniel, let's begin from the book of Daniel chapter 1 so that we get the answer of his question first. Daniel chapter 1 we are beginning from verse number one. Daniel chapter 1 and the verses one. The scripture reads in the third year of the reign of Joakim the king of Judah came the king of Babylon and Jerusalem and besieged it. The Lord gave Joim the king of Judah into his hands with part of the vessels of the house of God which he carried into the land of Shina the house of his God. And he brought the vessels into the treasure house of his God. And the king spake unto Ashpenas the master of the Unix that he should bring certain of the children of Israel and of the king's sin and of the princes. Go to verse four. Read with me and you understand the Bible. Children in whom was no blemish. But Lord favored skillful in all wisdom and turning in knowledge, understanding, science and such had the ability in them to stand in the king's palace and whom they might teach the learning and the tongues of the childins. So from that point we get the requirement of Nebuchadzza to Ashenaz concerning the unex whom he was to bring. So the question comes what was they to learn in Babylon? They were to learn the language of the child beans because these people already they had one understanding of wisdom turning in all knowledge and understanding science and such had the ability in them to stand in the king's palace. So they had that you read the book who was the place a book called place in Bible education. Do you have it there? I want I want a hard copy. I only mark in the hard copy. If you go to the book place of Bible education in education bring me the hard copy. I want to read something on that written by Edo Trevia Jones. It will tell you that these people had the understanding from where? Get me the book parts and prophets pay 2 596. Yeah, that's what I want. Help me with it. You come and buy this book. He's only 600 shillings. I want us to read the book place of Bible education. Get me the book parts and prophet page 596. Education of Daniel. Uhhuh. So I want you to read this. Go to chapter 8 of the place of Bible education. Please go with me very fast. That chapter 8 it should be page 67 in this book 596. You read lesson before I read this I want to give the Bible principle alone. So these people were accounting in everything that they required. Okay, let's move to chapter 2 of Daniel uh chapter one sorry. So after that there was a test that this were to pass and that test Daniel and the fellow said don't give us the food from the king's me king's table but give us water and you know the things okay so I want you to prove this verse 12 prove thy servant I beseech thee 10 days and let them give us pulses to eat and water to Then let our countenance be looked upon before thee, and countenance of the children that eat of the portion of the king's meat, as thou seeest, deal with thy servants. So he consented with them in this matter and prove them 10 days. Verse 15 is very critical. At the end and at the end of the 10 days the accountants what you can look appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat. One thus took away the portion of their meat and the one that they should drink and gave them passes. As for these four children, God gave them one knowledge, two skills in learning and wisdom. And Daniel had understanding in all vision and dream. Verse 18. Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring them in, the princes the unic brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar and the king communed with them. And among them all was found none like Daniel, Naniah, Michelle and Nazar. Therefore today before the king verse 20 and in all matters all matters is it left out? Is it left out? Is farming left out? What about globe making and dress cutting? What about electrical engineering call it? What about flying aircraft? What is left out in all? Y all is like I'm reading God has the ability to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So it says and in all matters of what is called wisdom and knowledge and understanding the king inquired that the king inquired of them. He found them 10 times better than all one magicians. Two, three, everyone. So I'm asking this question to you. I'm posing a bit. Listen to my question. Whom do you think were the lecturers in Babylon at this time? I'm reversing the my question again. Whom do you think were the lecturers or the teachers in Babylon at this time teaching and lecturing Daniel, Azariah and Michelle? See the same magicians and astronomers. Okay, that is when you go to Daniel chapter 2, you get that they do not understand why the wisdom of the world is foolishness with God. God is good. Which knowledge do you think you can be 10 times wiser than your lecturer? Yes. Which knowledge do you think you can be 10 times wiser than your parents who are still in Babylon? So where do you think they got this knowledge? Where I want to give you where they got the knowledge. More with me. If you have the book less of Bible education, I want you listen to what I read. Page 68. Now blemish and wellpowered. This will require that they should be physically sound, wellbe and symmetrical. The world trans wisdom, knowledge and science is vers Hebrew is death, murder, pogma and are cruc the second is extension of the first, the third and of the second. So listen. Therefore the requirement of kingzar in selecting of this youth was that they should be physically sound. Is that right? symmetrical belt and that mentally they should be one skillful in deciding what is called valuable knowledge. Do you know what's called valuable knowledge? Do you know what's called valuable knowledge? Huh? The valuable knowledge is this. You have the ability to discern when to plant. Is that a knowledge that is valuable which adds value? Uhhuh. skillful ability to acquire such knowledge turning in the acquisition of knowledge by thinking and application. You get this point. You know many people go to school they think but where to apply is the problem. And I ask you question where do you apply Pythagoras theorem in the real world? Who has been told where to apply Pythagoras theorem in the real world? Yes. Who knows where to apply Pythagoras theorem in the real world? So this is what these people had the ability to discern and acquire that knowledge and where to apply it. Understanding how to correlate, classify, systemize the knowledge which they had faculty discern was valuable knowledge and which they were cunning in gathering. So let me take you where they acquired that knowledge. Go to the book of 1 Samuel. I'm telling them where they acquired the knowledge. as you stand up. 1st Samuel 19:20. Read with me 1st Samuel 19:20. And also 2 Kings 6 1-6. I'm reading that. Then we just finish. Yes. Yeah. And Saul sent messengers to take David. And when they saw the company of the prophets Uh-huh. Uh-huh. So then we just stop there. So it's this there was the schools of the prophets before these children of Israel were c were taken captive. So this all knowledge that was revealed in the Babylonian as a country by then was acquired in the schools of the prophets. Two, these men were living under the guidance of their parents. Okay? So their parents were building a character within heaven. So there's a part of a parent to play in character building. Read me that PP 596. PP 596. We are I'm done with my answer. PP 596. Just start from paragraph one. Uh-huh. Mhm. Mhm. The great life work of life is character building. In the knowledge of God is the foundation of all true education to impart this knowledge and to know the character in the knowledge with heat. So the object of teachers work is that. Uhhuh. Uhhuh. Yeah. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. Go to go to page 595. Uhhuh. Yes. 59. Let me read. It says uh le in the in the days of 593 paragraph 2. In some days there were two schools. One at Rama the home of the prophets another at Jerim where the ark then was others were established in their times. The people of this school sustain themselves by their own labor in tilling the land. So one we need to study what is called ABC education tilling the land or in some mechanical employment. Uhhuh. In Israel it was thought strange or degrading. Indeed, it was regarded as a crime to allow children to grow up in ignorance of useful labor. By the command of God, every child was storm some trade. Uhhuh. Even though he was to be educated for holy office. So the main object of education in Israel was for what? Redemption. And holy office was to preserve for them. But as far as that, they were also to do what is called mechanical work, toiling the land. Last many of the religious teachers supported themselves by manual labor even so late as the time of the apostle Paul and Achil Aquilia no less honored because they earn lively by their trade of dent making. So that is it. Okay. Welcome. The next person who is coming just to be shorting myself in the Are you coming to preach? I want us to be very short because if I want to ask questions and you take 20 minutes please. So I will be doing something there. something too many. You just say this, this this maybe tomorrow. Praise God. Uh I'm going to answer I think one question that uh should I be employed by the government if I believe the truth may okay let us go to the book of proverbs chapter 22. The main reason why people are being employed number one people want to live a good life, riches, wealth and hope and honor in the society. 22 of Proverbs read verse 4. It says by and so those three things that that matter so much in the life of any person living they are being got by to the fear of the lord and the fear of the lord is the beginning of knowledge now I want to answer the second one should I train it we talk about we have children where should we take them to learn something like that. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Yeah. That one I'm going to take you to the book of the same same book. Proverbs 22 verse number six. It says train up where you should go. Uhhuh. So train up a child. uh I don't know if this instruction was given to the teachers in the school but I think the same as parents and uh that includes fathers and and mothers you brought a study of um a study of uh about uh Daniel and the the three Hebrew brothers I think I remaining with one minute I I will just give you a book there's a book known has story of Daniel the prophet. There is a a chapter or written a true education and uh I will not read everything. I will explain for you so you go and read uh after the announcement by prophet Isaiah that the Babylonians will be be coming to this city to destroy it and to take some of the vessels of God to their land. Mothers and the parents who were who heard about this started teaching their kids the sin the history of Israel were studied and the story of Nadab and Abihu was told and retold. They were being taught through songs and also they were being also taught about the effect of health uh bad health in the family like the effect of strong dream was impressed upon the mind. the laws of his own being was studied. He knew that excess in eating and drinking will s the mind that the voice of God could not be heard. I'm I'm still looking a text that will tell me that Daniel was was employed in Babylon. I think it was a forced labor. Was there that Daniel was employed and was receiving a certain amount of money every month? I think is there it was employed but receiving amount of money building even houses even ordering some cars from abroad so I'm still looking for that verse if there is then Daniel was employed in Babylon and receiving yes teacher of education come will be all of you cannot answer this questions amen You can only ask another one. I'm going to be very brief. The first verse that was read is John 17:15 that says that keep them from evils of the what? The world is is what it that they in the world but need they need to be kept from the evils of the what? It says out of the world. Out of the world. The first principle to keep somebody out of the evil is to separate him from the the world. Number two, there's a question that has been asked about Daniel commented on it. I want just read a quotation on where Daniel obtained his education. So that when we are talking about number one need to know that those people where they education I'm reading place of the Bible in education page 80 paragraph one very fast says that the specification distinctly made in the scriptures so it should be projected place of Bible in education page 80 paragraph one very fast it reads Uhhuh. Uhhuh. Mhm. Mhm. Uh-huh. Mhm. It is not small tribute to the educational ideas. Indeed, this view of education as the Bible as shown in the vers of the Bible were for all practical what purposes advance of the educational system. Fine and advance educational system. By the way, what required from those people was advanced education that the one that exists today. Read the next statement. Even the leading college and universities of the United States. So what was even higher than the education that was providing the universities and colleges of United what? States. Yet yet Daniel Daniel successfully were able successfully such to pass such an examination where then they said such education that exceeded even the education that was provided in the university. Uhhuh. But me you the answer to this question the answer to this question is worth having. worth having besides besides we need it just now for all this for last days. Next paragraph where then you see people says that Daniel were taken to what to learn what Babylon get this get this where then Daniel and his three companions the education enabled them successfully to pass them skillful in all wisdom and cunning in knowledge and science. All these things withoutation it can be answered in a school. In the schools of what? So during the times of prophets there was a what? A school. Read the divinely established school. The divinely established school in what? So in Israel there was a school established. Continue reading. There was that that time a school of the what? In Jerusalem. in Jerusalem. So we need to understand that the the likes of Daniel I could have read many things but the lack of Daniel obtained an education in the university on Israel. Okay. Number two. Number two. 1 28 paragraph 2 says that God's purpose in giving the third angel's message. God's purpose in giving the angels message to the world to prepare people to stand true to him during the investigative what? Judgment. This is the purpose for which we establish and maintain our publishing houses. Our what? Our schools, our sanitariums, hygienic restaurants, treatment what? treatment rooms and factories factories. This is our purpose in carrying forward the work in every word every life. Okay. So God's purpose to carry the message is that we have our own what our own school. Hallelujah. The last thing I'm saying is that not all the knowledge that is in the world is unnecessary. Are we together? What Satan is doing is mingling truth and and air. You go to place of Bible education, you realize that even in our schools where we have to maintain this in our schools there are things that we have to teach. One of them language must be taught, geography must be taught, must be taught anatomy and physiology must be music must be done what must be taught. Amen. And therefore when the Lord has brought a knowledge that will help in carrying on the gospel, that knowledge will be accepted by God's people, God's people. So long as that knowledge will not confuse them the mind and lead to what to say. Amen. Others will be handled in the next lesson in Jesus name. You want to answer or you want to ask a question? Question is coming. Yes. this many hands. Put your hands down like you ask the question still being answered. Yes. The context for my question. The context for my question was is it wrong to be to study or to be employed in that institution? Not the not the what being taught is wrong because I think the there should be a simultaneous application whereby parents can teach the way Daniel and the others were taught and then that the knowledge from home will help them to survive in those so my questioning me and I go and work there is it just to go and work or is it wrong just leaving it wrong? So that means those who be answering the questions you don't even note them down you love answering you don't note you don't yes amen so note the questions so that you may not come and don't answer now who want to answer that if you have noted so that you may not come and start out a study till the somebody who ask a question is wondering am I being answered Yes, but at least you have gotten that Daniel did not go to Babylon to study. In fact, Daniel chapter one is written that he had all knowledge and wisdom. By the way, they had everything while with us we are going to school to acquire those knowledge. But they all all knowledge wisdom full of science all things and in fact it is written that the knowledge wanted cannot even be found in University of United States. So that means those people went there when already that prepared. The question was where did they get the education they got it from the what back at their home somebody came here who read that they were taught even health at home. Even their standing with health message in Daniel in Babylon was not an accident. It was not what an is the first principle. Even when you are going to be answered going to work there. Number two, it was also a command of God that let them go to Babylon. Remember God told Jeremiah said that those who will refuse will be killed. But again, our command now is not to go to Babylon. It is to come out of Babylon. Our command is different. Their command was to go bon all of you that y is coming put your y ours is to come out of so we have to look line upon line the other line and this line and connect somebody to come and ask yes yes felix come and then we are you will the rest will answer the next questions is still the same so thank you you take 2 minutes yes go is I want to read one verse. 1 Corinthians 6:17 I think says that 6:17 verse from verse 14 very fast the Bible reads the praise of the Lord is it second or 2 Corinthians 6:14 the Bible reads be not equally y together with unbelievers both fellowship as righteousness or unrighteousness Yes. What is what communion as light with darkness? So who is unbeliever do not be collect together with unbeliever. Who is unbeliever? Who is unbeliever? So we cannot we cannot be united with someone in business transaction. White says that we cannot even be united in business transaction with those who do not believe what with those who do not believe the the present. So it is wrong. It is wrong to be employed in such a school in in in worldly employment because they are unbelievers. You cannot work among them because you have a precious truth. So I wanted to read read the last quote education page 77. says that where Christ also receive his education so we are not to be employed by worldly as I read that I am quoting great controversy page 491.2 2 says that while men will be absorbed in business pursuit their probation will be what? Closing. Amen. So you cannot be employed in worldly institution if you have these truths. Page 77.1 I think the value of principle. No I want to read the last last statement says that education directly from heaven. Now listen where we need to obtain directly from heaven appointed sources. Gain directly from appointed sources. This education was gained direct directly from heaven appointed sources. From useful work. Number one useful useful work from the study of the scriptures. Study of the B of study of the scriptures of nature. Nature and from the experience of life. The experience of what? Those are the four syllabus. So we are not going to be employed by the word useful work scriptures nature. Amen. I think I'm done. So as uh as comes the simple answer is you can put [Music] here there will be a direct answer to your question. It is very direct. You you have to come forward. Can we allow come forward? Just come forward so that we maybe maybe Yes. Okay, good evening. My question is on it was yesterday that Kosg was teaching about talents and he was saying that if you abandon one bar one talent you be responsible for it isn't it that so I'm asking there is an example you give that if you have a talent of business and the same time you are for farming And business if you can come to the real world business is mostly empowered with worldly things. So if I abandon those business that is associated with worldly things and go to farming which is not which is useful and not worldly. So will life be responsible for that? And the another question is there is this practical institutions that we go and learn something like maybe construction of our own houses. Are they bad? And if they are bad, which way forward? And I think the last question is this or these items we are using here even cooking are made from the worldly instructions and if we shall stop using them and maybe return to the maybe if it is cooking we return to ports. So I hope from tomorrow we will be cooking using pots not free if it is. Thank you. Good evening. We thank God for all these privileges to be together to share these messages and we hope the Lord is leading us. One thing I believe is that the Lord wants us to be balanced in everything and to follow the voice of truth and make decisions. Amen. So I know the questions that the brother ask us the last questions uh let me begin with the other one first though brother Maxwell has promised that he will blow something there which will solve everything uh on the question but let me give my view as a people as we stand today as the teacher for true education has said we have lost our birthight you know we sold it Um those people who followed our pioneers they sold us away. They never maintained our schools. We had Lalinda, we had Madison school, we had Battle Creek Colleges. These places were superior. If you study the history of the great depression, economic depression in 1929, when the secretary of education of the United States of America visited Madison school, he said, "All American schools should be ordered in this manner." They were running in the best way possible that any government school will wish to run. We sold it away. We lost it. What we are doing in this generation is we are crying out for restoration of those places. So this voice that is crying right now is not pointing us at a place where we have but saying we have lost it, we want to regain it. Amen. So by saying those places have a problem is a voice calling that we should go back to something which we must do practically not just by words. So when we said those places are evil let me just put it now in a few words after saying that my brother has already said not everything in the world is negative. The problem is that there is a mingling of error and what and truth. And the Lord wants us to establish places where we can find truth in its purity. That's the thing. And we want to move there slowly. We don't want to speak as though we already have the places. No, we are heading to that direction. And that's our cry as a people. So, brother, we do not have such places. The Lord wants us to establish such a places and we are beginning that work first by accepting that we have missed the point and now we can begin from here going towards that direction and for our children we are making preparations so that they will not be partakers of these places. I'm speaking because my child is not yet of age. For those whose children are of age, they have already made a decision to begin doing it. You get the point. So and as a church we must take up this work and lead it to the father's place. Um one still one example suffer me brother. Uh Hezekiah when he was visited by the ambassadors from Babylon they were Ezekiah was supposed to tell them about the true God right and how he had gotten healed. But instead he showed him all the things that he had. And the Lord said, "The days are coming when your children, even born of yourself, shall be taken to Babylon. Shall they shall be made unax, and they shall serve the king." So Daniel and his friends never served in Babylon because they they loved it. No, it was not that way. God really gave them privileges because they respected God. So that the king of Babylon treated them with favors. But see, they were made unox. Do you know what that means? They were castrated. Think about that. Can anyone go to school to be castrated? No. No. No. No. I really don't think so. They never served out of their own willingness. And if we are going to serve out of our own willingness, you realize that we are selling ourselves. So I will say personally in this regard, I'm sorry. I am just re finding it hard to summarize this thing because I found the question so heavy. Should I end it there or I still say something? Two minutes more just two more minutes. So what I wanted to say is these things that we are using here are not evil. We studied yesterday. We realized that the spirit of invention that gift comes from who? From the Lord. It may be misaligned but can't we if we install this system of education can't we be able also to even invent such things I'm persuaded if the adventist never lost that we will be very far much ahead of the world for sure we will be the ones doing these things and not going there to acquire that knowledge you get the point higher than the highest human thought is God's ideal is God's ideal for his children And that's it. Now the rest of the questions the brother has asked I still have lessons in my class and especially what he said I will capture it because I will be talking about what sections of businesses and what sections of works we can engage. Some of them are secular but acceptable. You get the point and some are Christian in practice. I mean they are gospel like running a publishing place. It makes money yet it is for gospel reasons. But if you are a Mason, it's not heralding the gospel proper but it is innocent. That one is not evil. So I'll talk about those businesses in my series on classes. So let me just end it there. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you brother for you will be answered. Even a education is not ended brother. If you come every day again this one now this is GCDP s your question is direct GCDB is general conference bulletin do you believe the spirit of prophecy yes I believe let's read because a question worth asking. If my money belongs to the world, yes, do I belong to the church? Uhhuh. If my abilities are put to the work of the world as of the world of the church as of the church then the Christian consider I belong to the church myself that our attention the Christian how much it cost me how much And it is a question worth asking. If my money belongs to the world, do I belong to the church? If my talent, my abilities are put into the work of the world as of the world and not the work of the church as of the church. The question is worth considering. Do I belong to the church myself? That turns our attention to the question, how much does it take to compose me? How much is there of a man? Do you have a man here at this faculty yonder is about in another place and the fruit of f of his faculty, the fruit of his abilities, the result of his life and endeavor in yet another place. Could that be the man be here? All of him. No sir. All my faculties, all the fruits of my life must wear. If I myself am to be there. We cannot escape that then do I belong to the church? Do I? That is the question. Does 75,000 uh 7th Adventist belong to the church? 75,000 700 belongs to the church. Do we that is the question to illustrate. So get illustration get illustration. Do all these people who are sitting here belong to this channel? That is the question. So illustration now to illustrate illustrate now listen suppose I have my name on the church book belong to the church I'm a school teacher and I'm spend all my time all my endeavor all my ability all my faculty as a school teacher in the world school teaching and teaching in the world school the world's in the world's way the world's education it is worth asking do I belong to the church am I loving the church and giving myself whatever I may profess my faculty my life what am I in the ability which god has given me I am giving it to the world for the world's work and the world's purpose that is so that I am loving the church and give myself do I belong the church suppose I am a physician and I give my ability my talent my faculties my life and I the world's way of what is called medicine the world's way of treating diseases. I stand as a member of the church as belong to the church. I am to be sanctified and cleansed the washing of water with the word of God and that word of God that is given to the church the divine the true system medical treatment the true philosophy and treatment with regard to health disease right living and all these things. I belong to the church to be sanctified and cleansed the washing of water by that word. Instead of doing what that word gives to me to which I am committed as belonging to the church, I take that world gives and devote to the world. What which I get from the world and I belong to the church. Do I? I belong to the church for the purpose of being sanctified. Is that making us not to get this? Okay. I belong to the church for the purpose of being sanctified and cleansed with the washing of water by the word of God to the church. There is in that word and that word itself is a system of education. That is the true and the only true education. I say I belong to the church but I'm satisfied with the world's education with the world's system of education with the world's philosophy of education and I devote my life to that I want to know do I really belong to the church it is precisely I think these things would not get this cuz they are not consequence like that no no now repeat this one there's in that one and Yeah, there is that word and that word itself is a system of education. That is the true that is the only true education. I say I belong to the church but I'm satisfied with the world's education, the world's system education, the world's philosophy education. I devote my life to that. I want to know do I really belong to the church? It is precisely so also as to medical or any other profession. So all processions you can have you take somebody also to get saying taking six days in the pagan institution and one day then you only have a day somebody to get that I still continue and I am a man of other affairs in the world whether it be business or farming or carpenter work I mean the every commercial business world I stand as belong to the church and the efforts which I put forth of thought or endeavor the blessings of God upon it all increase comes. I put it in the worldly bank. I'm not a speculator. I belong to the church. But here is the means God has given to me as a member of the church and I put it into the worldly bank. I loan it to the worldly men to be used in worldly business instead of in the work of the church to which I belong. Then it is fair question for me to ask do I belong to the church? This reference to illustrate. And now there's not one here of these delegates. delegates. You are in the delegates India. The delegates in the land are enough to illustrate. And now there's not one here of these delegates who cannot look all over this land and see thousands upon thousands 7th Adventist who stand in a position as belonging to the church. Which leaves a wide open question for you and to ask. Do I belong to the church? And everyone here knows that if all seven of the adventists in the United State from this day and forward who really belong to the church, you yourself will confess that there is no question at all but that this message could be given to the world in this generation. You can only why this message cannot go now to the church but we are in church. a world person in where the church but not a member and a you can all say amen to that. You know that that is so then you see you going to say amen but you know it is so and then you see brethren the problem is not difficult. The problem is not difficult. It is just this question to be decided. It is not difficult. This issue of education is not what it is just this question to be what decided by it is just to be discussed by each one or himself. The youth must decide for himself. Do I belong to the church? You are going to come out of this meeting. You can work in the world. But again, do you and Christ is coming to take the church. Christ is coming to take a church. Do I belong to the church? Where next? Oh now shall I not shall not I find myself my faculties or my means wrapped up in the work of the world used in behalf of the world or engage the world's work shall not I will not you wall it away from there and put the church's work in the course of the church in the earth to which I belong let that be done and you know that spiritually it will shake this worlds out of its place think of it if only seventh advent in the United States would really consider this allow the church give themselves with their children give their themselves with their children do you know why our schools are failing when they began education where is the money of the advent going the world even these schools who who building who are in the who are board members who are the teachers there are they members of this church those who are teaching in the worldly schools Do we have members in our church here and in our school? What if these talents were used in the church? What if all these talents all were used in the church now and it says yes let that be done and you know that spiritually it will shake this world out of its place. Think of it. If all seven adventists in United States really consider this, love the church, give themselves with their children for the church and to the church, how would our schools work stand? Imagine if all of us it will be stand where it ought and such consecration as that will bring such power from heaven that the teaching will be saved will be easy. The lack of teachers will not be such as it is now. So now we don't even have teachers. We even collect things that should not be collected. Hallelujah. You collect those who have talent in the world. Hallelujah. They know how to teach best. You would have not lacked teachers. The Latin teachers will not be such a hindist. No. And so with all the rest, if all seven day Adventist in the land will turn their families and Christian education and all our families, if we can turn our families to Christian education and the education that becomes the church and education that becomes the church and the world is calling for the church to give. The world is calling the church to give that education. And because he has just said in 1929 somebody went where to to the medicine and said this is the what see and now shall I not find myself and my faculties or my mean grabs in the work of the world use the world or engage in the work world's work shall I not shall not I will not you w away from there and put the child's work elites cause of the charge in the earth to which I belong. Somebody's joking here. He's not with us. Yes. Be with us. Please be in church. Be church. Amen. And so with all the rest, if all the seven in the land will turn their families under Christian education, education that that becomes the church and that the world is calling for the church to give and for the want of which and because of the lack of which the world itself is saying that the church in education is a distinctly diminishing quantity. If this were done, the world would easily be rich in this generation. So how can the world be rich in this generation? only through what? There's no way we can reach them. Not through crusades. Okay. If we do crusades and we don't have the true education, we rather stop preaching cuz we are forming churches that are going to be Babylon again. What has made the general content to be Babylon is because of the education of the world. Amen. It is time that there should be one church in the world that will rise and be not a mission quoted in education but be the whole thing in education. If the seventh day Adventist will really give themselves the church loving it giving themsel for it with all their talents all their means all their powers then the whole problem will be solved. So why do we have a problem? There are people inside this movement but they have refused to be the church members and that is why we have a problem will come again. People want to be united. We talk we talk of unity and by the way that book says that in 1860s the church was busy talking of unity and organization while their children were going to the what? World education. That was the problem including the daughter of the prophet when when he died the children of public school came and uh sland says that was the problem. They were busy talking of church organization unity we need to come together unity. What are we talking about now? See unity and organization but they are saying true education was to bring what? Unity. Unity. So it is the same. This is the problem we have. Some people in here but they're not church members. They not church members. That is the only problem. It is the problem is not management. People are not church members. says if the seventh adventist will really give themselves to the church loving it, giving themselves for it with all their talents, all their means, all their powers, then the whole problem will be solved. The world facilities are abandoned. In brother Daniel's discourse last night that was presented to us all, brother Conrad today showed how the fields are open and all ready and the harvest. The prophecies a convention like we are. Uh-huh. The prophecies so abundant show that abundant by the way the prophecies we have been learning here talking of what see schools I will show you the commandments in schools now they look the so prophecies are what so abundant showing that now there's time that have been presented let these people present ourselves to Christ today loving the church, being the church, giving ourselves for it, giving ourselves for the church. This people I say present ourselves to Christ as his church. to love that church, to give ourel for it and to give ourel to it with all our you are not even reading these things with all efforts all the effort of whatsoever kind Uh-huh it will be as sweet was before this will be a holy church. So what will make a holy church? When we give ourselves for the church to the church and in the church and for the church and to the church this will be only not having a wrinkle or any such thing the church the pill and the ground of I will study student who always teach what the church is do you tell them about this education church without a wrinkle see amenal amen is this church having a wrinkle and spot serious the church is the pill on the ground and that was what in 2021 we were in this hall and that is where organization started was I want my church back oh and this was the this was this was 1 Timothy 3:14 and 15 it was look at that church is the church is the mill and the ground the support that the stay of the truth in the world the only means by this world can ever obtain truth is by the church. By the church. It may be that the church like the church of Israel and Judah will not of itself voluntarily spread that truth abroad to the world. The people may like Israel and Judah shut themselves within themselves. Shut themselves within themselves and turn the truth of God away, put other things in its place, shut themselves away from the world and thus fail to give it to the world. But if that must be so, then that church will be scattered. So this church is going to be scattered again as was Israel as was Judah amongst the nation of heathen and they in oppression and in bondage. So that is how Adventist found themselves in 201 will find the truth through the church. So whichever way it may be the only way that the nation can get the truth is from the church. So imagine see we took our children and they were scattered in the bondage but still truth came even in those universities did they get those truths people got it in other way if you joke and you think you escaping Please. Amen. Why don't you say amen? Amen. The only way that God's truth can preach the nation is through the church. Church. Therefore, This is how it is that the church of Christ who is the body of the c of Christ is the bail and the ground the support and the stay of the truth in the world. It is that which keeps alive the truth in the earth. Yes. How then how then can the world obtain the truth from me from me as of the church of the church when all my effort listed this question this question sister is going but he will come back and check it. Amen. Yes. This is important question. Yes. Read it together. How then can the world obtain the truth from me as of the church? The church. When all my efforts, all your efforts are enlisted. Are what? Enlisted. Uhhuh. And spend the world's occupation. My brother, are you seeing this? How then can the world bring good from you when 6 days you are employed in Lala community as of the church? As of the church. Then all my efforts, all your efforts are enlisted. What? Enlisted. Uh-huh. and spent in the world's occupation and in the world's philosophy of occupation. Can that be done? Can that be done? No. Sir, the world cannot see the church in me. The world will not see the church in church in that condition of things. In order for the truth to reach the world by me, who am of the church, it is essential that I shall do the work as the work of the church. Do huh the work as of the church. talking so that we may not get in order for the in order for the worldh in order for the truth to reach the world by me by me who am of the church who am of the church it is essential that I shall do the work as the work of the church the work as the work of the church if I am a farmer if and I think even in farming you will be Amen. If I am a farmer of the church. Hallelujah. Amen. Farmer. Amen. Farm pumpkin. And then you saying you are of the church beans. This is the whole of my beams now. If I'm a teacher, if I'm a what? A teacher. If I'm a teacher, I am a teachers of the church. I'm a teacher of the church. A representative of the church. A representative of the church. I do my work as the work of the church. I do my work as the work of the church. Therefore, therefore this calls that every one of us who profess to belong to the church shall so really belong to the church that everything in our lives everything in our lives in our actions in our actions everything that comes in the course of our lives shall be distinctly of the church was that how pioneers were pioneers among working in the world he was a lecturer and also a pioneer Okay. It reads, "Huh, therefore, therefore, this cause that everyone of us who profess to belong to the church shall so really belong to the church that everything in our lives in our actions, everything that comes in the course of our lives shall be distinctly of the church shall relate to the church and we will hold it up the glory of God as of the church." this the last one. Then then that church will be so filled with the truth and will be so sanctified by the truth with which she is filled that the glory of God which is in that truth will shine forth. The world will see her that glorious church which will be discussed everywhere by the world. That church that everything is for the church. You teach us the church. The glory of the Lord shall be seen upon thee. The word will be fulfilled that she shall rise and shine for our light is come and the glory of the Lord and the Lord is risen upon her. You know that is so now all these only to have said in other words that in the days of the voice of the seventh angel when he shall begin to sound the mystery of God shall begin to sound. The mist of God shall be fulfilled as he and declare to his son the prophets. That mystery of God finished is the gospel preached to all the world that the end may come. That ministry of God is finished in the world is the work of God finished in preaching the gospel to the nation. And it is more than that. Along with that, the mystery of God is God manifest in the flesh. The finished mystery of God is the completion the perfection of the manifestation of God in the flesh in the believers in Jesus who belong to the church. Thus there are two place occupied in the finishing of the mystery of God. One place in the world itself to which the gospel is to be preached, the other place in the lives of the believers of the truth. We might preach and proclaim in words to the ends of the earth to every soul on earth in our generation. So that phase of the work will be completed will be finished. Yet if the manif manifestation of God in the lives of those who preach that is not completed also we could be that thing 10,000 years and the end will never come. It is not simply yet if the manifestation of God in the lives of those who preach that is not completed also we could preach that thing 10,000 years and the end will never come. is not simply that the gospel shall be preached to all the world and fill all the world but it is that when it is done there shall be a people ready to meet at the hand without the finishing of the manifestation of God in the flesh of each believer there can be no finishing of the mystery of God that mystery finished God manifest the flesh mark it means that only God is to be seen in every act of life or believer so that in his life God is manifest only that is the finish of the mystery of God in the way that it counts and you know that if that way were open and God would take position and fill the lives of the 25,000 professed believers today it would be the easiest thing in the world to reach all the nation so that end you know the mystery of God is Christ in you the hope of glory then the finished mystery of God is the finishing of the growth the manifestation of Christ the believer So that we shall stand in this world in the image of Jesus Christ reflecting only him. That when the believers when the believers shall be seen only Christ will be seen. Everything that is said, everything that is done, every tone of voice, all that we are will only of Christ only. That is the finish of the mystery of God in truth in the way that it counts. And that is what has to come before the end can come. That is a child that presents to himself. Hallelujah. Are we far away from are we do you think we are going to make but we are we thank God we are in the line. We are going what is it? What is it? Christian studies in Christian education by EA Southerntherland. [Music] We can decide to be employed. It is our choice. The youth must decide for himself. But again, uh you have seen in your own word. By the end of the call here, we are going to make a call for those who want to be church members. By the way, Vuko, do you think we are going to make it? This is the problem. It is it is the biggest problem. So these talents which are being taught if they're not going to be of church they nothing have influence now read this loudly what's used is the preaching of the gospel today while six days out of seven paganis to get the intellect. What use is the preaching of the gospel on one week? One one day of the week while six days out of the seven paganism guys the intellect. That is why the school calls that those who are in the pagan system of education if they worship it is form of what? Godliness. I hope you used to do it best in West of God. That is why many people have gotten lost today. They were so powerful in church. Unless God help us. By the way, without the help of God, nobody can be found. But God is trying so much. Now every preaching of the gospel in one day of the week. One day of the week Sabbath while six days out of the seven paganism guys the intellect. Why dreaming of heaven or spend Why is it doing what? Dreaming of heaven or spend money to procelite. Money to pro money to proite means money to do what? To preach. So question why of what uses the preaching of the gospel on one day of the week while six days out of seven paganism guys the intellect why is she dreaming of heaven or spend money to proite while pagan education leads your own children by the hand okay even your children again weaves about their find a network of theories which blind their eyes to spiritual truths or students wake up to study how many dogs how many teeth does a dog have many dogs evolution there's wait in the word of the pres president ha of Chicago university say it is difficult to prophesy what the result of our present method education the youth will be in 50 Yes, we are training the mind in our public school. But the moral side of the child's nature is almost entirely neglected. The Roman Catholic cons insist on remedying the this manifest evil. But our Protestant churches seems to ignore it completely. They expect the Sunday school to make good oral public school live and die. And the consequence is that we will look at danger as real as us as any we had to face. Imagine that is what parents are doing to us. You need to teach why you in discipline is this one of use and then you school teachers next time on I think if a parent has refused getting this there's no need of bringing those children to come and destroy people's children who are struggling. Hallelujah. Times when may God help us. I don't want to talk much these things. I I don't want to rob them their power in Jesus name. Amen. We s over these things. Do you know one of the signs of the last days when Christ was about to go to heaven, he used to tell his disciples that I will be arrested, persecuted and on the third day and they were sad and after the sec few hours they were fighting for who is greatest. So one of the says that one of the we need to study closely the life of Jesus especially in the last week is final scene final scene is that the things will be taught to the people of God and then after 3 days and then next time and then the following that Sign of the last days something for few minutes I know please God has given this ministry powerful message and those who would want to go to heaven will have to separate let me tell you the pioneers did a great work some were teachers some were medical missionaries they ate and they were working all their money that the money they were getting was for the work of God and their families did not sleep hungry today we don't believe in that in churches some like in Nairobi and other places is they taught that oh Daniel the same word of Daniel it is being used by the GC the pray for us there's a announcement in our people want to be taken managers so manag don't dream of heaven that is those are not my words so sum Amen. Even if all even if we are going to get lost but the name of God is glorified. Amen. That is called he tells he was praying when we were starting young evangelist. You remember that old one who came said even if I get lost let the name of God be what? glorified that grace of God was sufficient to me and I rejected. So, Amen. Don't dream of heaven. I wish no heaven in Jesus name. Other questions tomorrow in Jesus name or any time the committee will decide to put questions and answer. Was the question good? Is there somebody who has made a step? May God help us in Jesus. Who from those questions? Who has a special prayer for God's grace? Who has got you have realized you are not a church member and you want God to help you to be a church member, come forward. This is you know you are those are calls that people can come come for marvelous mar 109 as people stand up 109 109 here schools have greatest influence 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[13.7s] prophecy speaker says we will start with
[17.0s] them in the next lesson. So this is the
[20.0s] next lesson.
[24.3s] Soon
[27.2s] come I'm forgetting your name. You see
[29.8s] I'm
[30.6s] wondering but you'll be telling us your
[32.9s] name first and then you ask how many do
[36.0s] you
[36.7s] welcome? Yes. Would you give him a mic
[39.2s] of
[53.5s] Yes, it's working.
[60.6s] Good evening.
[62.7s] My name is Baraka and I'm glad to be
[66.2s] here. So, I'm much can say
[71.1s] confused or uh what term can I use? Yes.
[76.3s] But allow me read the book of John
[77.8s] chapter 17 verse
[81.6s] uh verse 15 before I ask my
[84.6s] question. This Jesus praying I pray that
[87.2s] thou should shouldest take them out of
[90.3s] the world but that thou should keep them
[94.2s] from the evil.
[98.2s] So uh my question goes to uh the handle
[103.2s] topic in the afternoon true
[105.3s] education. All of us here I believe you
[107.8s] are schooled and uh if not I don't know
[111.8s] but for me
[113.2s] personally I've uh finished campus 84
[118.0s] system and currently I'm looking for
[120.4s] unemployment and uh in the
[123.5s] presentations I heard
[125.6s] that anyone working or schooling in
[129.4s] Babylonian
[130.8s] institution in the last days in which we
[133.3s] are right now will
[136.8s] uh all or parents taking their children
[139.9s] to Babylonian schools or institutions
[143.0s] will receive the mark of the beast. So
[145.6s] I'm
[147.8s] asking and this is a very serious
[150.1s] question. The book of Daniel chapter one
[152.2s] we see Daniel and his brothers taken to
[155.7s] Babylon. Nemiah working as a cup
[158.4s] bearer in uh in the king's palace. Yes,
[162.6s] he was. Daniel and his brothers were in
[165.1s] Babylonian king kingdom and they were
[167.7s] working in the palace and yet they were
[170.4s] faithful. We see Nemiah
[173.2s] too working as a cup bearer in the
[176.8s] king's palace.
[178.7s] So I was asking
[180.8s] myself as a saved member
[185.8s] uh is it wrong to be
[190.1s] employed for example I'm I'm a an
[193.0s] accountant and a finance
[195.6s] analyst if I'm employed in an
[197.8s] institution
[201.4s] uh in fact we were told that Babylon and
[205.9s] the Rome as has taken over almost every
[210.5s] institution sor even the government
[213.4s] itself. See if I'm employed in any
[216.5s] government institution or
[217.4s] non-governmental institution. Is it
[219.4s] wrong? That my first question. The
[221.5s] second question uh in this room I know
[225.1s] the PA system, the laptops, our phones,
[227.4s] our dress codes, our everything are made
[231.0s] from these
[233.0s] institutions. the system, our phones and
[236.2s] everything are made from all
[238.1s] this.
[240.7s] So I'm I'm a little bit confused. So I
[244.6s] need much
[245.7s] clarification that if indeed uh we are
[249.7s] to reform in true education, what line a
[253.4s] clear line will will we take or will I
[256.3s] take personally? because maybe I've not
[258.8s] learned much from other lessons but that
[261.0s] was my first
[262.1s] lesson
[263.7s] and lastly if I get children if I'm
[267.4s] married I'm not married if I be married
[270.2s] my
[272.4s] children what
[274.2s] form like when the the seven adventist
[277.8s] church began in in in 1863 there were
[281.4s] institutions there were sanitariums
[283.1s] there were
[284.0s] schools in these last days one true god
[287.0s] Do we have institutions? Do we have
[288.4s] sanitariums? Because if I have a wife,
[290.6s] my wife wants to be want to deliver.
[292.7s] Will I not take her to a Babylonian
[295.8s] oipital or any well will I take her my
[299.8s] children all that when they are sick?
[302.1s] Not let let me not speak of health
[304.7s] reform but let let me speak of other
[307.9s] institutions. So even the IT men here
[312.1s] all of us we learn these skills there.
[315.3s] Even Daniel and the brothers, they learn
[317.8s] those skills. They Moses being trained
[319.3s] in the king's palace. So that's my
[322.2s] question.
[324.0s] Thank you.
[328.6s] Thank
[333.0s] you.
[335.7s] Answers the Bible three stories are
[341.2s] spiritual. How many answers? 1
[348.8s] 2 3 I ask you be short. Yes to the
[361.9s] point.
[364.8s] Happy happy
[367.1s] Sunday. Happy
[369.2s] Sunday. Uh thank you. Uh I want to be
[373.5s] short and precise but I want to say this
[377.4s] as I
[378.5s] begin. Let the Bible speak. Uh he has
[382.2s] given a case study of
[384.4s] Nemiah.
[386.3s] Daniel that is where I want us to begin
[390.1s] from. Uh if you go to the book of
[393.3s] Daniel, let's begin from the book of
[394.9s] Daniel chapter 1 so that we get the
[397.3s] answer of his question first. Daniel
[400.6s] chapter
[401.5s] 1 we are beginning from verse number
[406.1s] one. Daniel chapter 1 and the verses
[409.4s] one. The scripture reads in the third
[412.9s] year of the reign of Joakim the king of
[415.7s] Judah came the king of Babylon and
[418.5s] Jerusalem and besieged it. The Lord gave
[422.0s] Joim the king of Judah into his hands
[424.2s] with part of the vessels of the house of
[426.0s] God which he carried into the land of
[428.2s] Shina the house of his God. And he
[431.4s] brought the vessels into the treasure
[433.5s] house of his God. And the king spake
[436.2s] unto Ashpenas the master of the Unix
[439.7s] that he should bring certain of the
[441.6s] children of Israel and of the king's sin
[444.8s] and of the
[446.8s] princes. Go to verse four. Read with me
[450.1s] and you understand the
[451.6s] Bible. Children in
[453.9s] whom was no blemish. But Lord favored
[458.7s] skillful in all wisdom and turning in
[463.2s] knowledge, understanding, science and
[466.6s] such had the ability in them to stand in
[469.3s] the king's palace and whom they might
[471.5s] teach the learning and the tongues of
[473.5s] the childins.
[475.4s] So from that point we get the
[477.8s] requirement of
[480.1s] Nebuchadzza to Ashenaz concerning the
[483.8s] unex
[485.1s] whom he was to bring. So the question
[488.9s] comes what was they to learn in Babylon?
[492.9s] They were to
[494.4s] learn the language of the child
[497.9s] beans because these people already they
[501.0s] had one understanding of
[506.3s] wisdom turning in all
[509.6s] knowledge and understanding
[512.8s] science and such had the ability in them
[515.4s] to stand in the king's palace.
[519.8s] So they had that you read the book who
[521.8s] was the place a book called place in
[523.6s] Bible
[524.7s] education. Do you have it there? I want
[528.1s] I want a hard copy. I only mark in the
[531.0s] hard copy. If you go to the book place
[533.8s] of Bible
[536.5s] education in education bring me the hard
[538.9s] copy. I want to read something on that
[541.6s] written by Edo Trevia Jones. It will
[544.8s] tell you that these people had the
[547.0s] understanding from where? Get me the
[549.8s] book parts and prophets pay 2
[553.2s] 596. Yeah, that's what I want. Help me
[555.8s] with
[558.4s] it. You come and buy this book. He's
[561.0s] only 600 shillings. I want us to read
[563.4s] the book place of Bible education. Get
[565.1s] me the book parts and prophet page
[567.9s] 596. Education of Daniel. Uhhuh.
[571.6s] So I want you to read
[573.8s] this. Go to
[576.4s] chapter 8 of the place of Bible
[580.0s] education. Please go with me very fast.
[583.5s] That chapter 8 it should be page 67 in
[586.4s] this book 596. You read
[590.5s] lesson before I read this I want to give
[593.1s] the Bible principle alone. So these
[595.4s] people were accounting in everything
[596.7s] that they required. Okay, let's move to
[599.4s] chapter 2 of Daniel
[602.7s] uh chapter one sorry. So after that
[605.4s] there was a test that this were to pass
[608.6s] and that test Daniel and the
[612.7s] fellow said don't give us the food from
[617.0s] the king's me king's table but give us
[619.8s] water and you know the things okay so I
[623.1s] want you to prove this verse
[626.4s] 12 prove thy servant I beseech thee 10
[629.2s] days and let them give us pulses to eat
[632.6s] and water to
[635.1s] Then let our countenance be looked upon
[637.4s] before thee, and countenance of the
[639.7s] children that eat of the portion of the
[641.4s] king's meat, as thou seeest, deal with
[644.5s] thy servants. So he consented with them
[647.1s] in this matter and prove them 10
[650.6s] days. Verse 15 is very critical. At the
[654.2s] end and at the end of the 10 days the
[658.1s] accountants what you can
[661.2s] look appeared fairer and fatter in flesh
[665.0s] than all the children which did eat the
[667.2s] portion of the king's meat. One thus
[670.7s] took away the portion of their meat and
[672.3s] the one that they should drink and gave
[674.0s] them passes.
[676.4s] As for these four children, God gave
[679.1s] them one knowledge, two skills in
[684.1s] learning and wisdom. And Daniel had
[686.4s] understanding in all vision and dream.
[689.6s] Verse 18. Now at the end of the days
[692.8s] that the king had said he should bring
[695.2s] them in, the princes the unic brought
[697.5s] them in before Nebuchadnezzar and the
[699.8s] king communed with them. And among them
[701.8s] all was found none like Daniel, Naniah,
[705.0s] Michelle and Nazar. Therefore today
[706.9s] before the king verse 20 and in all
[711.4s] matters all matters is it left
[716.0s] out? Is it left out? Is farming left
[719.8s] out? What about globe making and dress
[724.0s] cutting? What about electrical
[726.4s] engineering call it? What about flying
[730.0s] aircraft? What is left out in
[733.1s] all? Y all is like I'm
[736.4s] reading God has the ability to cleanse
[738.7s] us from all
[740.1s] unrighteousness. So it says and in all
[743.9s] matters of what is called wisdom and
[747.8s] knowledge and understanding the king
[750.8s] inquired that the king inquired of them.
[753.9s] He found them 10 times better than all
[757.9s] one magicians.
[761.0s] Two,
[763.9s] three, everyone. So I'm asking this
[766.3s] question to you. I'm posing a bit.
[769.0s] Listen to my
[770.4s] question. Whom do you think were the
[773.4s] lecturers in Babylon at this
[777.6s] time? I'm reversing the my question
[780.0s] again. Whom do you think were the
[781.6s] lecturers or the teachers in Babylon at
[784.6s] this time teaching and lecturing Daniel,
[787.5s] Azariah and
[789.3s] Michelle? See the same magicians and
[792.8s] astronomers. Okay, that is when you go
[795.8s] to Daniel chapter 2, you get that they
[798.2s] do not understand why the wisdom of the
[802.0s] world is foolishness with
[805.2s] God. God is good.
[809.1s] Which knowledge do you think you can be
[811.4s] 10 times wiser than your
[816.0s] lecturer?
[818.1s] Yes. Which knowledge do you think you
[820.6s] can be 10 times wiser than your parents
[823.1s] who are still in
[825.7s] Babylon? So where do you think they got
[828.9s] this knowledge? Where I want to give you
[832.5s] where they got the knowledge.
[837.0s] More with me. If you have the book less
[839.6s] of Bible
[842.1s] education, I want you listen to what I
[845.0s] read. Page
[846.3s] 68. Now blemish and wellpowered. This
[849.0s] will require that they should be
[850.4s] physically sound, wellbe and
[853.4s] symmetrical.
[855.9s] The world trans wisdom, knowledge and
[858.0s] science is vers Hebrew is death, murder,
[861.5s] pogma and are cruc the second is
[864.3s] extension of the first, the third and of
[866.4s] the second. So
[868.8s] listen. Therefore the requirement of
[871.0s] kingzar in selecting of this youth was
[873.9s] that they should be physically sound. Is
[876.3s] that right? symmetrical belt and that
[880.0s] mentally they should be one skillful in
[883.3s] deciding what is called valuable
[885.0s] knowledge. Do you know what's called
[886.8s] valuable
[888.3s] knowledge? Do you know what's called
[890.0s] valuable
[892.1s] knowledge? Huh? The valuable knowledge
[895.0s] is this. You have the ability to discern
[898.7s] when to plant. Is that a knowledge that
[900.8s] is
[901.9s] valuable which adds value? Uhhuh.
[905.5s] skillful ability to acquire such
[907.0s] knowledge turning in the acquisition of
[909.0s] knowledge by thinking and
[911.3s] application. You get this point. You
[914.0s] know many people go to school they think
[916.5s] but where to apply is the problem. And I
[919.8s] ask you
[921.1s] question where do you apply Pythagoras
[923.6s] theorem in the real world? Who has been
[926.0s] told where to apply Pythagoras theorem
[927.5s] in the real world?
[931.0s] Yes. Who knows where to apply Pythagoras
[933.5s] theorem in the real world?
[939.4s] So this is what these people had the
[941.1s] ability to discern and acquire that
[943.0s] knowledge and where to apply it.
[945.8s] Understanding how to correlate,
[948.8s] classify, systemize the knowledge which
[951.4s] they had faculty discern was valuable
[954.8s] knowledge and which they were cunning in
[957.5s] gathering. So let me take you where they
[959.6s] acquired that knowledge. Go to the book
[961.4s] of 1 Samuel. I'm telling them where they
[963.6s] acquired the knowledge. as you stand up.
[965.3s] 1st Samuel
[967.5s] 19:20. Read with me 1st Samuel
[975.2s] 19:20. And also 2 Kings 6 1-6. I'm
[978.3s] reading that. Then we
[980.0s] just
[982.3s] finish. Yes. Yeah.
[987.3s] And Saul sent
[988.6s] messengers to take
[992.8s] David. And when they saw the company of
[995.6s] the prophets
[999.8s] Uh-huh.
[1002.7s] Uh-huh. So then we just stop there. So
[1005.8s] it's this there was the schools of the
[1008.6s] prophets before these children of Israel
[1011.4s] were c were taken captive. So this all
[1015.6s] knowledge that was revealed in the
[1019.5s] Babylonian as a country by then was
[1022.7s] acquired in the schools of the prophets.
[1025.2s] Two, these men were living under the
[1029.4s] guidance of their
[1032.9s] parents. Okay? So their parents were
[1036.8s] building a character within heaven. So
[1040.1s] there's a part of a parent to play in
[1042.5s] character building. Read me that PP
[1046.8s] 596. PP 596. We are I'm done with my
[1051.1s] answer. PP
[1052.9s] 596. Just start from paragraph one.
[1057.8s] Uh-huh. Mhm.
[1064.4s] Mhm. The great life work of life is
[1067.1s] character
[1070.1s] building. In the knowledge of God is the
[1072.4s] foundation of all true
[1074.5s] education to impart this
[1078.1s] knowledge and to know the character in
[1080.9s] the knowledge with
[1083.2s] heat. So the object of teachers work is
[1086.2s] that.
[1090.5s] Uhhuh.
[1092.4s] Uhhuh.
[1094.7s] Yeah.
[1099.1s] Mhm. Yeah.
[1105.3s] Yeah.
[1108.4s] Mhm. Go to go to page
[1112.8s] 595. Uhhuh. Yes. 59. Let me read. It
[1117.2s] says
[1119.1s] uh le in the in the days of 593
[1121.4s] paragraph 2. In some days there were two
[1124.0s] schools. One at Rama the home of the
[1126.6s] prophets another at Jerim where the ark
[1129.4s] then was others were established in
[1131.8s] their times. The people of this school
[1133.8s] sustain themselves by their own labor in
[1136.2s] tilling the land. So one we need to
[1138.2s] study what is called ABC education
[1140.6s] tilling the land or in some mechanical
[1143.4s] employment. Uhhuh. In Israel it was
[1147.0s] thought strange or degrading. Indeed, it
[1150.2s] was regarded as a crime to allow
[1151.8s] children to grow up in ignorance of
[1154.1s] useful labor. By the command of God,
[1156.6s] every child was storm some trade. Uhhuh.
[1160.0s] Even though he was to be educated for
[1161.7s] holy office. So the main object of
[1164.7s] education in Israel was for what?
[1167.7s] Redemption. And holy office was to
[1169.8s] preserve for them. But as far as that,
[1172.0s] they were also to do what is called
[1174.2s] mechanical work, toiling the land. Last
[1177.2s] many of the religious teachers supported
[1178.7s] themselves by manual labor even so late
[1182.0s] as the time of the apostle Paul and
[1184.1s] Achil Aquilia no less honored because
[1187.1s] they earn lively by their trade of dent
[1189.9s] making. So that is it. Okay. Welcome.
[1204.9s] The next person who is
[1207.3s] coming just to
[1210.2s] be
[1213.9s] shorting myself in the
[1219.8s] Are you coming to preach?
[1223.1s] I want us to be very short because if I
[1225.7s] want to ask questions and you take 20
[1228.4s] minutes
[1230.9s] please. So I will be doing something
[1233.4s] there.
[1236.0s] something too many. You just say this,
[1240.2s] this
[1242.0s] this maybe tomorrow.
[1252.3s] Praise God.
[1254.2s] Uh I'm going to
[1255.8s] answer I think one question that uh
[1259.8s] should I be employed by the government
[1262.8s] if I believe the
[1265.6s] truth
[1268.3s] may okay let us go to the book of
[1271.0s] proverbs chapter 22.
[1274.0s] The main reason why people are being
[1275.6s] employed number one people want to live
[1279.1s] a good life, riches, wealth and hope and
[1283.4s] honor in the
[1284.9s] society. 22 of Proverbs read verse 4. It
[1290.8s] says by
[1296.4s] and so those three things that that
[1299.8s] matter so much in the life of any person
[1302.1s] living they are being got
[1304.1s] by to the fear of the lord and the fear
[1308.6s] of the lord is the beginning of
[1310.8s] knowledge now I want to answer the
[1314.0s] second one should I train it we talk
[1318.0s] about we have children where should we
[1319.9s] take them to learn something like that.
[1322.2s] Yeah.
[1324.6s] Yes.
[1326.4s] Yes. Yeah. That one I'm going to take
[1328.7s] you to the book of the same same book.
[1331.1s] Proverbs 22 verse number six. It says
[1336.0s] train up where you should go.
[1340.0s] Uhhuh. So train up a child. uh I don't
[1343.2s] know if this instruction was given to
[1345.4s] the teachers in the school but I think
[1347.5s] the same as parents and uh that includes
[1351.4s] fathers and and mothers you brought a
[1354.8s] study of
[1355.9s] um a study of uh about
[1360.2s] uh Daniel and the the three Hebrew
[1364.2s] brothers I think I remaining with one
[1367.1s] minute I I will just give you a book
[1370.2s] there's a book known has story of Daniel
[1373.1s] the prophet. There is a a
[1376.4s] chapter or written a true education and
[1380.2s] uh I will not read everything. I will
[1381.9s] explain for you so you go and read uh
[1385.7s] after the announcement by prophet Isaiah
[1389.6s] that the Babylonians will be be coming
[1392.0s] to this city to destroy it and to take
[1394.8s] some of the vessels of God to their
[1396.9s] land. Mothers and the parents who were
[1400.6s] who heard about this started teaching
[1403.5s] their kids the sin the history of Israel
[1407.7s] were studied and the story of Nadab and
[1411.5s] Abihu was told and retold. They were
[1414.6s] being taught through songs and also they
[1417.6s] were being also taught about the effect
[1419.9s] of health uh bad health in the family
[1423.1s] like the effect of strong dream was
[1425.4s] impressed upon the mind. the laws of his
[1428.8s] own being was studied. He knew that
[1431.4s] excess in eating and drinking will s the
[1434.3s] mind that the voice of God could not be
[1437.4s] heard. I'm I'm still looking a text that
[1441.0s] will tell me that Daniel was was
[1444.2s] employed in Babylon. I think it was a
[1447.0s] forced labor. Was there that Daniel was
[1450.0s] employed and was receiving a certain
[1452.2s] amount of money every month? I think is
[1455.0s] there it was employed but receiving
[1457.7s] amount of money building even houses
[1460.0s] even ordering some cars from abroad so
[1463.4s] I'm still looking for that verse if
[1465.8s] there is then Daniel was employed in
[1468.7s] Babylon and receiving
[1471.9s] yes teacher of education
[1477.4s] come will be all of you cannot answer
[1481.0s] this questions amen
[1483.8s] You can only ask another one. I'm going
[1487.0s] to be very brief. The first verse that
[1489.3s] was read is John 17:15 that says that
[1493.7s] keep them from evils of the what? The
[1496.3s] world is is what it that they in the
[1499.4s] world but need they need to be kept from
[1501.1s] the evils of the what? It says
[1505.1s] out of the world. Out of the
[1507.0s] world. The first principle to keep
[1509.9s] somebody out of the evil is to separate
[1511.8s] him from the the world. Number two,
[1514.6s] there's a question that has been asked
[1516.4s] about
[1517.5s] Daniel commented on it. I want just read
[1519.8s] a quotation on where Daniel obtained his
[1521.6s] education. So that when we are talking
[1523.3s] about number one need to know that those
[1526.2s] people where they education I'm reading
[1529.1s] place of the Bible in education page 80
[1531.5s] paragraph one very fast says that the
[1533.8s] specification distinctly made in the
[1536.7s] scriptures so it should be projected
[1539.3s] place of Bible in education page 80
[1541.5s] paragraph one very fast it
[1545.3s] reads
[1548.1s] Uhhuh. Uhhuh. Mhm.
[1553.6s] Mhm. Uh-huh.
[1557.5s] Mhm. It is not small tribute to the
[1560.4s] educational
[1562.0s] ideas.
[1563.6s] Indeed, this view of education as the
[1566.6s] Bible as shown in the vers of the Bible
[1569.4s] were for all practical what purposes
[1572.8s] advance of the educational system. Fine
[1575.1s] and
[1576.3s] advance educational system. By the way,
[1579.7s] what required from those people was
[1582.6s] advanced education that the one that
[1584.5s] exists today. Read the next statement.
[1588.6s] Even the leading college and
[1590.2s] universities of the United States. So
[1593.2s] what was even higher than the education
[1596.8s] that was providing the universities and
[1598.7s] colleges of United what? States. Yet yet
[1602.3s] Daniel
[1606.4s] Daniel successfully were able
[1608.8s] successfully such to pass such an
[1611.2s] examination where then they said such
[1613.9s] education that exceeded even the
[1615.5s] education that was provided in the
[1617.6s] university.
[1619.4s] Uhhuh. But me you the answer to this
[1622.0s] question the answer to this question is
[1625.0s] worth having. worth having besides
[1627.0s] besides we need it just now for all this
[1630.8s] for last days. Next
[1632.5s] paragraph where then you see people says
[1636.0s] that
[1636.8s] Daniel were taken to what to learn what
[1640.2s] Babylon get this get this where then
[1644.1s] Daniel and his three
[1646.8s] companions the education enabled them
[1650.6s] successfully to
[1654.8s] pass them skillful in all wisdom and
[1658.6s] cunning in knowledge and science.
[1661.8s] All these things withoutation
[1665.4s] it can be answered in a school. In the
[1667.8s] schools of what? So during the times of
[1670.3s] prophets there was a what? A school.
[1672.2s] Read the divinely established school.
[1674.4s] The divinely established school in what?
[1677.4s] So in Israel there was a school
[1679.6s] established. Continue reading.
[1682.6s] There was that that time
[1685.2s] a school of the what? In Jerusalem. in
[1693.2s] Jerusalem. So we need to understand that
[1695.5s] the the likes of Daniel I could have
[1697.6s] read many things but the lack of Daniel
[1699.6s] obtained an education in the university
[1701.5s] on Israel. Okay. Number two. Number two.
[1705.8s] 1 28 paragraph 2 says that God's purpose
[1708.8s] in giving the third angel's message.
[1710.5s] God's purpose in giving the angels
[1712.7s] message to the world to prepare people
[1715.4s] to stand true to him during the
[1717.4s] investigative what? Judgment. This is
[1719.9s] the purpose for which we establish and
[1721.8s] maintain our publishing houses. Our
[1724.4s] what? Our schools, our sanitariums,
[1727.8s] hygienic restaurants, treatment what?
[1730.1s] treatment rooms and factories factories.
[1733.4s] This is our purpose in carrying forward
[1735.8s] the work in every word every life. Okay.
[1739.0s] So God's purpose to carry the message is
[1741.7s] that we have our own what our own
[1743.5s] school. Hallelujah. The last thing I'm
[1745.8s] saying is that not all the knowledge
[1749.5s] that is in the world is unnecessary. Are
[1752.6s] we together? What Satan is doing is
[1755.2s] mingling truth and and air. You go to
[1758.6s] place of Bible education, you realize
[1760.2s] that even in our schools where we have
[1762.3s] to maintain this in our schools there
[1764.4s] are things that we have to teach. One of
[1766.6s] them language must be taught, geography
[1769.0s] must be taught, must be
[1771.7s] taught anatomy and
[1774.0s] physiology must be music must be done
[1776.5s] what must be taught. Amen. And therefore
[1778.6s] when the Lord has brought a knowledge
[1780.7s] that will help in carrying on the
[1783.1s] gospel, that knowledge will be accepted
[1785.8s] by God's people, God's people. So long
[1787.7s] as that knowledge will
[1789.9s] not confuse them the mind and lead to
[1792.9s] what to say. Amen. Others will be
[1795.4s] handled in the next lesson in Jesus
[1797.0s] name.
[1804.5s] You want to answer or you want to ask a
[1808.1s] question? Question is
[1814.3s] coming. Yes.
[1816.8s] this many
[1818.5s] hands. Put your hands
[1822.6s] down like you ask the
[1827.1s] question still being answered.
[1833.3s] Yes. The context for my question. The
[1836.7s] context for my question was is it wrong
[1838.9s] to be to study or to be employed in that
[1844.1s] institution? Not the not the what being
[1848.1s] taught is wrong because I think the
[1851.9s] there should be a simultaneous
[1853.3s] application whereby parents can teach
[1856.0s] the way Daniel and the others were
[1858.1s] taught and then that the knowledge from
[1861.0s] home will help them to survive in those
[1864.8s] so my questioning
[1871.5s] me and I go and work there is it just to
[1875.1s] go and work
[1876.9s] or is it wrong
[1878.7s] just
[1881.2s] leaving it wrong?
[1887.0s] So that means those who be answering the
[1889.7s] questions you don't even note them down
[1892.2s] you love answering you don't note you
[1894.9s] don't yes amen so note the questions so
[1899.9s] that you may not come and don't
[1904.0s] answer now who want to answer that if
[1907.6s] you have noted so that you may not come
[1909.4s] and start out a study till the somebody
[1912.4s] who ask a question is wondering am I
[1914.8s] being answered Yes, but at least you
[1918.3s] have gotten that Daniel did not go to
[1920.6s] Babylon to study. In fact, Daniel
[1923.9s] chapter one is written that he had all
[1926.8s] knowledge and wisdom. By the way, they
[1928.9s] had everything while with us we are
[1930.6s] going to school to acquire those
[1932.0s] knowledge. But they all all knowledge
[1934.8s] wisdom full of science all things and in
[1938.4s] fact it is written that the knowledge
[1941.2s] wanted cannot even be found in
[1943.5s] University of United States. So that
[1947.0s] means those people went there when
[1948.5s] already that prepared. The question was
[1950.2s] where did they get the education they
[1952.8s] got it from the what back at their home
[1956.3s] somebody came here who read that they
[1958.0s] were taught even health at home. Even
[1959.7s] their standing with health message in
[1962.2s] Daniel in Babylon was not an accident.
[1965.4s] It was not what an is the first
[1968.2s] principle. Even when you are going to be
[1969.8s] answered going to work there. Number
[1972.4s] two, it was also a command of God that
[1975.9s] let them go to Babylon. Remember God
[1978.6s] told Jeremiah said that those who will
[1980.5s] refuse will be killed. But again, our
[1982.8s] command now is not to go to Babylon. It
[1984.7s] is to come out of Babylon. Our command
[1987.5s] is different. Their command was to go
[1989.1s] bon all of you that y is coming put your
[1992.5s] y ours is to come out of so we have to
[1996.7s] look line upon line the other line and
[1999.0s] this line and connect somebody to come
[2000.9s] and ask yes yes felix come and then we
[2005.0s] are you will the rest will answer the
[2006.9s] next questions is still the same
[2010.1s] so thank
[2012.0s] you you take 2 minutes yes
[2017.1s] go is
[2018.8s] I want to read one verse. 1 Corinthians
[2021.1s] 6:17 I think says that
[2024.9s] 6:17
[2026.4s] verse from verse 14 very fast
[2029.4s] the Bible reads the praise of the Lord
[2033.1s] is it second or 2 Corinthians 6:14
[2038.0s] the Bible reads
[2041.3s] be not equally y together with
[2044.6s] unbelievers both fellowship as
[2046.9s] righteousness or unrighteousness Yes.
[2050.9s] What is what communion as light with
[2053.0s] darkness?
[2056.0s] So who is unbeliever do not be collect
[2058.5s] together with unbeliever. Who is
[2062.6s] unbeliever? Who is unbeliever?
[2067.1s] So we cannot we cannot be united with
[2070.2s] someone in business transaction. White
[2073.1s] says that we cannot even be united in
[2075.3s] business transaction with those who do
[2077.8s] not believe
[2079.1s] what with those who do not believe the
[2081.6s] the present. So it is
[2083.7s] wrong. It is wrong to be employed in
[2087.0s] such a school in in in worldly
[2089.7s] employment because they are unbelievers.
[2091.7s] You cannot work among them because you
[2093.6s] have a precious truth. So I wanted to
[2096.6s] read read the last quote education page
[2100.6s] 77.
[2102.7s] says that where Christ also receive his
[2106.0s] education so we are not to be employed
[2108.2s] by
[2109.2s] worldly as I read that I am quoting
[2111.9s] great controversy page 491.2 2 says that
[2116.1s] while men will be absorbed in business
[2118.7s] pursuit their probation will be what?
[2121.8s] Closing. Amen. So you cannot be employed
[2124.7s] in worldly institution if you have these
[2129.2s] truths. Page
[2132.8s] 77.1 I think the value of principle. No
[2137.0s] I want to read the last last statement
[2139.0s] says that education directly from
[2141.3s] heaven.
[2144.4s] Now listen where we need to obtain
[2146.2s] directly from heaven appointed
[2151.0s] sources. Gain directly from appointed
[2153.7s] sources. This education was gained
[2155.9s] direct directly from heaven appointed
[2158.2s] sources. From useful work. Number one
[2161.4s] useful useful work from the study of the
[2164.4s] scriptures. Study of the B of study of
[2167.5s] the scriptures of nature. Nature and
[2169.8s] from the experience of life. The
[2171.2s] experience of what? Those are the four
[2173.8s] syllabus. So we are not going to be
[2176.6s] employed by the word useful work
[2179.1s] scriptures
[2181.0s] nature. Amen. I think I'm done.
[2185.4s] So as
[2187.0s] uh as comes the simple
[2191.4s] answer is you can put
[2193.5s] [Music]
[2195.4s] here there will be a direct answer to
[2197.8s] your question.
[2202.6s] It is very
[2211.7s] direct. You you have to come forward.
[2214.5s] Can we allow come forward? Just come
[2217.4s] forward so that we maybe
[2222.4s] maybe Yes.
[2229.9s] Okay, good evening.
[2233.0s] My question
[2234.6s] is on it was yesterday that Kosg was
[2238.4s] teaching about
[2239.7s] talents and he was saying that if you
[2243.0s] abandon one bar one talent you be
[2246.4s] responsible for
[2247.8s] it isn't it that so I'm
[2252.7s] asking there is an example you give that
[2255.8s] if you have a talent of
[2258.0s] business and the same time you are for
[2261.1s] farming
[2262.8s] And business if you can come to the real
[2266.0s] world business is mostly empowered with
[2269.2s] worldly
[2271.1s] things.
[2273.0s] So if I abandon those business that is
[2277.6s] associated with worldly things and go
[2281.4s] to farming which is not which is useful
[2285.6s] and not worldly. So will life be
[2289.0s] responsible for that? And the another
[2291.7s] question is there is this practical
[2294.5s] institutions
[2296.0s] that we go and
[2298.3s] learn something like maybe construction
[2302.2s] of our own
[2303.9s] houses. Are they bad? And if they are
[2308.1s] bad, which way
[2310.6s] forward? And I think the last question
[2314.4s] is
[2317.5s] this or these items we are using here
[2321.0s] even cooking are made from the worldly
[2324.2s] instructions and if we shall stop using
[2326.8s] them and maybe return to the maybe if it
[2329.8s] is cooking we return to ports. So I hope
[2334.2s] from tomorrow we will be cooking using
[2336.4s] pots not free if it is.
[2345.2s] Thank you. Good
[2350.0s] evening. We thank God for all these
[2352.6s] privileges to be together to share these
[2354.8s] messages and we hope the Lord is leading
[2357.9s] us. One thing I believe is that the
[2361.2s] Lord wants us to be balanced in
[2364.0s] everything and to follow the voice of
[2366.4s] truth and make decisions. Amen.
[2369.6s] So I know the questions that the brother
[2372.2s] ask us the last questions
[2375.2s] uh let me begin with the other one first
[2378.6s] though brother Maxwell has promised that
[2380.3s] he will blow something there which will
[2382.6s] solve everything uh on the question but
[2385.7s] let me give my
[2387.5s] view as a people as we stand
[2390.7s] today as the teacher for true education
[2393.4s] has said we have lost our birthight you
[2397.4s] know we sold it
[2400.4s] Um those people who followed our
[2402.7s] pioneers they sold us away. They never
[2406.0s] maintained our schools. We had Lalinda,
[2408.3s] we had Madison school, we had Battle
[2410.5s] Creek Colleges. These places were
[2412.7s] superior. If you study the history of
[2416.1s] the great depression, economic
[2418.6s] depression in
[2421.2s] 1929, when the secretary of education of
[2424.9s] the United States of America visited
[2427.6s] Madison school, he said, "All American
[2431.3s] schools should be ordered in this
[2433.2s] manner." They were running in the best
[2435.9s] way possible that any government school
[2438.6s] will wish to run. We sold it away. We
[2441.8s] lost it. What we are doing in this
[2444.7s] generation is we are crying out for
[2448.0s] restoration of those places. So this
[2450.9s] voice that is crying right now is not
[2453.8s] pointing us at a place where we have but
[2456.2s] saying we have lost it, we want to
[2459.1s] regain it. Amen.
[2461.2s] So by saying those places have a problem
[2466.1s] is a voice calling that we should go
[2468.6s] back to something which we must do
[2471.1s] practically not just by words. So when
[2475.1s] we said those places are evil let me
[2477.5s] just put it now in a few words after
[2479.6s] saying
[2480.9s] that my brother has already said not
[2485.6s] everything in the world is negative. The
[2489.3s] problem is that there is a mingling of
[2492.3s] error and what and truth. And the Lord
[2495.2s] wants us to establish places where we
[2497.3s] can find truth in its purity. That's the
[2500.4s] thing. And we want to move there slowly.
[2503.6s] We don't want to speak as though we
[2505.2s] already have the places. No, we are
[2507.4s] heading to that direction. And that's
[2509.5s] our cry as a people. So, brother, we do
[2512.7s] not have such places. The Lord wants us
[2514.8s] to establish such a places and we are
[2517.2s] beginning that work first by accepting
[2519.6s] that we have missed the point and now we
[2521.7s] can begin from here going towards that
[2524.0s] direction and for our children we are
[2527.5s] making preparations so that they will
[2529.9s] not be partakers of these places. I'm
[2532.9s] speaking because my child is not yet of
[2535.2s] age. For those whose children are of
[2537.4s] age, they have already made a decision
[2539.4s] to begin doing it. You get the point. So
[2542.0s] and as a church we must take up this
[2543.8s] work and lead it to the father's place.
[2547.2s] Um one still one example suffer me
[2551.6s] brother. Uh Hezekiah when he was visited
[2555.0s] by the ambassadors from Babylon they
[2558.0s] were Ezekiah was supposed to tell them
[2560.5s] about the true God right and how he had
[2563.8s] gotten healed. But instead he showed
[2567.2s] him all the things that he had. And the
[2570.0s] Lord said, "The days are coming when
[2572.8s] your children, even born of yourself,
[2574.9s] shall be taken to Babylon. Shall they
[2576.6s] shall be made unax, and they shall serve
[2578.8s] the king." So Daniel and his friends
[2581.4s] never served in Babylon because they
[2584.1s] they loved it. No, it was not that way.
[2587.8s] God really gave them privileges because
[2589.8s] they respected God. So that the king of
[2593.1s] Babylon treated them with favors. But
[2595.6s] see, they were made unox. Do you know
[2597.2s] what that means? They were
[2601.2s] castrated. Think about
[2604.6s] that. Can anyone go to school to be
[2607.6s] castrated? No. No. No. No. I really
[2609.8s] don't think so. They never served out of
[2613.0s] their own willingness. And if we are
[2616.2s] going to serve out of our own
[2618.5s] willingness, you realize that we are
[2620.7s] selling ourselves. So I will say
[2623.0s] personally in this
[2624.6s] regard, I'm sorry. I am just re finding
[2628.6s] it hard to summarize this thing because
[2631.0s] I found the question so heavy. Should I
[2634.0s] end it there or I still say something?
[2636.6s] Two minutes more just two more minutes.
[2641.1s] So what I wanted to say is these things
[2643.8s] that we are using here are not
[2646.8s] evil. We studied yesterday. We realized
[2649.6s] that the spirit of invention that gift
[2652.9s] comes from who? From the Lord. It may be
[2655.6s] misaligned but can't we if we install
[2659.1s] this system of education can't we be
[2662.1s] able also to even invent such things I'm
[2665.8s] persuaded if the adventist never lost
[2668.0s] that we will be very far much ahead of
[2670.8s] the world for sure we will be the ones
[2673.0s] doing these things and not going there
[2674.6s] to acquire that knowledge you get the
[2676.2s] point higher than the highest human
[2678.4s] thought is God's ideal is
[2680.6s] God's ideal for his children And that's
[2685.0s] it. Now the rest of the questions the
[2687.8s] brother has asked I still have lessons
[2691.0s] in my class and especially what he said
[2695.1s] I will capture it because I will be
[2697.0s] talking about what sections of
[2699.7s] businesses and what sections of works we
[2703.2s] can engage. Some of them are secular but
[2706.3s] acceptable. You get the point and some
[2708.9s] are Christian in practice. I mean they
[2710.4s] are gospel like running a publishing
[2712.2s] place. It makes money yet it is for
[2714.4s] gospel reasons. But if you are a Mason,
[2717.7s] it's not heralding the gospel proper but
[2720.6s] it is innocent. That one is not evil. So
[2723.3s] I'll talk about those businesses in my
[2726.0s] series on classes. So let me just end it
[2728.3s] there. Thank you.
[2730.5s] Thank you. Thank you brother for you
[2733.4s] will be answered. Even a education is
[2735.9s] not ended brother. If you come every day
[2740.1s] again this one now this is
[2743.5s] GCDP s your question is direct GCDB is
[2747.9s] general conference bulletin do you
[2749.5s] believe the spirit of prophecy
[2752.7s] yes I believe let's read
[2768.1s] because
[2772.2s] a question worth asking. If my money
[2774.3s] belongs to the world, yes, do I belong
[2778.6s] to the church? Uhhuh.
[2780.6s] If my abilities are put to the work of
[2783.4s] the world as of the world of the church
[2787.4s] as of the church then the Christian
[2789.6s] consider I belong to the church myself
[2793.0s] that our attention the Christian how
[2795.4s] much it cost
[2798.2s] me how much
[2810.8s] And it is a question worth asking. If my
[2813.4s] money belongs to the world, do I belong
[2817.1s] to the church? If my talent, my
[2819.9s] abilities are put into the work of the
[2821.4s] world as of the world and not the work
[2823.8s] of the church as of the church. The
[2826.0s] question is worth considering. Do I
[2827.8s] belong to the church myself? That turns
[2830.4s] our attention to the question, how much
[2832.4s] does it take to compose me? How much is
[2835.0s] there of a man? Do you have a man here
[2837.5s] at this faculty yonder is about in
[2839.7s] another place and the fruit of f of his
[2841.9s] faculty, the fruit of his abilities, the
[2844.3s] result of his life and endeavor in yet
[2846.7s] another place. Could that be the man be
[2849.9s] here? All of
[2852.1s] him. No sir. All my faculties, all the
[2856.8s] fruits of my life must wear. If I myself
[2860.3s] am to be there. We cannot escape that
[2864.2s] then do I belong to the church? Do I?
[2867.0s] That is the question. Does 75,000 uh 7th
[2871.2s] Adventist belong to the church? 75,000
[2874.8s] 700 belongs to the church. Do we that is
[2879.0s] the question to illustrate. So get
[2882.0s] illustration get illustration. Do all
[2884.2s] these people who are sitting here belong
[2885.8s] to this channel? That is the question.
[2888.2s] So illustration now to illustrate
[2891.7s] illustrate now listen suppose I have my
[2893.9s] name on the church book belong to the
[2896.1s] church I'm a school teacher and I'm
[2898.8s] spend all my time all my endeavor all my
[2902.5s] ability all my faculty as a school
[2905.8s] teacher in the world school teaching and
[2909.0s] teaching in the world school the world's
[2911.8s] in the world's way the world's education
[2914.4s] it is worth asking do I belong to the
[2916.7s] church am I loving the church and giving
[2919.5s] myself whatever I may profess my faculty
[2923.0s] my life what am I in the ability which
[2925.5s] god has given me I am giving it to the
[2928.4s] world for the world's work and the
[2930.6s] world's purpose that is so that I am
[2933.8s] loving the church and give myself do I
[2936.6s] belong the church suppose I am a
[2938.9s] physician and I give my ability my
[2941.1s] talent my faculties my life and I the
[2944.6s] world's way of what is called medicine
[2948.0s] the world's way of treating diseases. I
[2950.4s] stand as a member of the church as
[2952.6s] belong to the church. I am to be
[2954.3s] sanctified and cleansed the washing of
[2956.0s] water with the word of God and that word
[2958.4s] of God that is given to the church the
[2960.6s] divine the true system medical treatment
[2962.8s] the true philosophy and treatment with
[2964.7s] regard to health disease right living
[2967.4s] and all these things. I belong to the
[2969.6s] church to be sanctified and cleansed the
[2971.7s] washing of water by that word. Instead
[2974.5s] of doing what that word gives to me to
[2978.0s] which I am committed as belonging to the
[2980.0s] church, I take that world gives and
[2983.1s] devote to the world. What which I get
[2985.5s] from the world and I belong to the
[2987.2s] church. Do I? I belong to the church for
[2990.3s] the purpose of being sanctified.
[2993.5s] Is that making us not to get this?
[2998.2s] Okay. I belong to the church for the
[3000.9s] purpose of being sanctified and cleansed
[3003.0s] with the washing of water by the word of
[3005.5s] God to the church. There is in that word
[3009.0s] and that word itself is a system of
[3012.8s] education. That is the true and the only
[3015.8s] true education. I say I belong to the
[3019.0s] church but I'm satisfied with the
[3020.7s] world's education with the world's
[3022.3s] system of education with the world's
[3024.0s] philosophy of education and I devote my
[3026.1s] life to that I want to know do I really
[3029.0s] belong to the church it is precisely I
[3031.9s] think these
[3033.8s] things would not get
[3037.4s] this cuz they are not
[3040.8s] consequence like that no no now repeat
[3044.1s] this one there's in that one and Yeah,
[3047.0s] there is that word and that word itself
[3049.4s] is a system of education. That is the
[3052.2s] true that is the only true education. I
[3054.6s] say I belong to the church but I'm
[3056.7s] satisfied with the world's education,
[3058.4s] the world's system education, the
[3060.0s] world's philosophy education. I devote
[3062.1s] my life to that. I want to know do I
[3064.9s] really belong to the church? It is
[3066.8s] precisely so also as to medical or any
[3070.7s] other profession. So all processions you
[3073.2s] can have you take somebody also to get
[3077.2s] saying taking six days in the pagan
[3080.1s] institution and one day then you only
[3081.9s] have a day somebody to get that I still
[3083.5s] continue and I am a man of other affairs
[3086.3s] in the world whether it be business or
[3088.8s] farming or carpenter work I mean the
[3091.6s] every commercial business world I stand
[3094.7s] as belong to the church and the efforts
[3096.6s] which I put forth of thought or endeavor
[3099.2s] the blessings of God upon it all
[3101.2s] increase comes. I put it in the worldly
[3103.6s] bank. I'm not a speculator. I belong to
[3106.6s] the church. But here is the means God
[3109.5s] has given to me as a member of the
[3111.0s] church and I put it into the worldly
[3113.0s] bank. I loan it to the worldly men to be
[3115.8s] used in worldly business instead of in
[3118.3s] the work of the church to which I
[3119.9s] belong. Then it is fair question for me
[3122.2s] to ask do I belong to the church? This
[3125.3s] reference to illustrate. And now there's
[3128.4s] not one here of these delegates.
[3130.9s] delegates. You are in the delegates
[3132.3s] India.
[3133.9s] The delegates in the land are enough to
[3136.4s] illustrate. And now there's not one here
[3139.0s] of these delegates who cannot look all
[3142.4s] over this land and see thousands upon
[3144.5s] thousands 7th Adventist who stand in a
[3146.7s] position as belonging to the church.
[3149.3s] Which leaves a wide open question for
[3151.4s] you and to ask. Do I belong to the
[3153.7s] church? And everyone here knows that if
[3156.7s] all seven of the adventists in the
[3157.9s] United State from this day and forward
[3160.3s] who really belong to the church, you
[3162.7s] yourself will confess that there is no
[3164.8s] question at all but that this message
[3167.4s] could be given to the world in this
[3170.0s] generation. You can only why this
[3172.6s] message cannot go
[3175.6s] now to the church but we are in
[3178.3s] church. a world person in where the
[3181.1s] church but not a member and a you can
[3184.5s] all say amen to
[3186.2s] that. You know that that is so then you
[3189.1s] see you going to say amen but you know
[3192.4s] it is so and then you see brethren the
[3196.6s] problem is not difficult. The problem is
[3198.9s] not difficult. It is just this question
[3200.7s] to be decided. It is not difficult. This
[3204.1s] issue of education is not what it is
[3207.6s] just this question to be what decided by
[3210.4s] it is just to be discussed by each one
[3213.0s] or himself. The youth must decide for
[3215.8s] himself.
[3217.3s] Do I belong to the church? You are going
[3219.0s] to come out of this meeting. You can
[3221.0s] work in the world. But again, do you and
[3223.7s] Christ is coming to take the church.
[3226.4s] Christ is coming to take a church.
[3231.7s] Do I belong to the church?
[3234.6s] Where
[3235.7s] next? Oh now shall I not shall not I
[3240.5s] find myself my faculties or my means
[3243.3s] wrapped up in the work of the world used
[3245.4s] in behalf of the world or engage the
[3247.3s] world's work shall not I will not you
[3251.1s] wall it away from there and put the
[3253.9s] church's work in the course of the
[3255.9s] church in the earth to which I belong
[3258.8s] let that be done and you know that
[3261.0s] spiritually it will shake this worlds
[3263.3s] out of its place think of it if only
[3265.9s] seventh advent in the United States
[3267.9s] would really consider this allow the
[3270.0s] church give themselves with their
[3271.8s] children give their themselves with
[3274.7s] their children do you know why our
[3276.6s] schools are failing when they
[3280.5s] began education where is the money of
[3282.8s] the advent going the world even these
[3285.5s] schools who who building who are in the
[3287.8s] who are board members
[3290.5s] who are the teachers there are they
[3292.3s] members of this
[3293.5s] church those who are teaching in the
[3295.5s] worldly schools Do we have members in
[3297.0s] our church here and in our school? What
[3300.3s] if these talents were used in the
[3302.8s] church? What if all these talents all
[3305.7s] were used in the church now and it says
[3309.2s] yes
[3310.8s] let that be done and you know that
[3313.0s] spiritually it will shake this world out
[3314.6s] of its place. Think of it. If all seven
[3317.8s] adventists in United States really
[3319.8s] consider this, love the church, give
[3322.2s] themselves with their children for the
[3324.6s] church and to the church, how would our
[3326.9s] schools work stand? Imagine if all of
[3339.6s] us it will be stand where it ought and
[3342.9s] such consecration as that will bring
[3344.9s] such power from heaven that the teaching
[3347.0s] will be saved will be easy. The lack of
[3350.1s] teachers will not be such as it is now.
[3352.6s] So now we don't even have teachers. We
[3354.6s] even collect things that should not be
[3357.9s] collected.
[3363.0s] Hallelujah. You
[3366.6s] collect those who have talent in the
[3373.6s] world.
[3378.8s] Hallelujah. They know how to teach best.
[3381.7s] You would have not lacked teachers. The
[3383.4s] Latin teachers will not be such a
[3385.0s] hindist. No. And so with all the rest,
[3388.6s] if all seven day Adventist in the land
[3391.1s] will turn their families and Christian
[3393.1s] education and all our families, if we
[3395.7s] can turn our families to Christian
[3397.4s] education and the education that becomes
[3399.7s] the church and education that becomes
[3401.5s] the church and the world is calling for
[3403.3s] the church to give. The world is calling
[3405.5s] the church to give that education. And
[3407.5s] because he has just said in 1929
[3409.9s] somebody went where to to the medicine
[3414.4s] and said this is the what
[3417.2s] see and now shall I not find myself and
[3420.1s] my faculties or my mean grabs in the
[3422.2s] work of the world use the world or
[3424.3s] engage in the work world's work shall I
[3426.2s] not shall not I will not you w away from
[3429.9s] there and put the child's work elites
[3432.6s] cause of the charge in the earth to
[3434.8s] which I belong.
[3441.4s] Somebody's joking here. He's not with
[3444.0s] us. Yes. Be with us. Please be in
[3447.4s] church. Be church. Amen. And so with all
[3451.0s] the rest, if all the seven in the land
[3453.4s] will turn their families under Christian
[3455.0s] education, education that that becomes
[3457.5s] the church and that the world is calling
[3459.8s] for the church to give and for the want
[3462.2s] of which and because of the lack of
[3464.5s] which the world itself is saying that
[3467.1s] the church in education is a distinctly
[3469.3s] diminishing quantity.
[3471.4s] If this were done, the world would
[3473.6s] easily be rich in this generation. So
[3476.1s] how can the world be rich in this
[3477.6s] generation? only through what?
[3480.7s] There's no way we can reach them. Not
[3482.4s] through
[3484.3s] crusades. Okay. If we do crusades and we
[3487.2s] don't have the true education, we rather
[3488.8s] stop preaching cuz we are forming
[3491.4s] churches that are going to be Babylon
[3493.0s] again. What has made the general content
[3495.7s] to be Babylon is because of the
[3497.1s] education of the world. Amen.
[3501.8s] It is time that there should be one
[3503.5s] church in the world that will rise and
[3505.5s] be not a mission quoted in education but
[3507.9s] be the whole thing in education. If the
[3510.2s] seventh day Adventist will really give
[3511.8s] themselves the church loving it giving
[3514.2s] themsel for it with all their talents
[3516.4s] all their means all their powers then
[3518.6s] the whole problem will be solved. So why
[3520.8s] do we have a problem?
[3523.0s] There are people inside this movement
[3524.6s] but they have refused to be the church
[3526.2s] members
[3528.2s] and that is why we have a problem will
[3531.6s] come again. People want to be united. We
[3535.0s] talk we talk of unity and by the way
[3538.2s] that book says that in 1860s the church
[3541.8s] was busy talking of unity and
[3543.4s] organization while their children were
[3545.0s] going to the what? World education. That
[3547.8s] was the
[3549.3s] problem including the daughter of the
[3551.7s] prophet when when he died the children
[3555.6s] of public school came and uh sland says
[3558.6s] that was the problem. They were busy
[3560.0s] talking of church organization unity we
[3562.6s] need to come together unity. What are we
[3565.0s] talking about
[3566.0s] now? See unity and organization but they
[3569.8s] are saying true education was to bring
[3572.0s] what?
[3574.3s] Unity. Unity.
[3576.8s] So it is the same. This is the problem
[3578.6s] we have. Some people in here but they're
[3581.2s] not church
[3583.6s] members. They not church members. That
[3586.9s] is the only problem. It is the problem
[3589.0s] is not
[3593.9s] management. People are not church
[3595.7s] members.
[3607.8s] says if the seventh adventist will
[3610.0s] really give themselves to the church
[3611.8s] loving it, giving themselves for it with
[3614.1s] all their talents, all their means, all
[3616.0s] their powers, then the whole problem
[3617.8s] will be solved. The world facilities are
[3620.2s] abandoned. In brother Daniel's discourse
[3623.0s] last night that was presented to us all,
[3626.2s] brother Conrad today showed how the
[3628.4s] fields are open and all ready and the
[3630.9s] harvest. The prophecies a convention
[3633.5s] like we are. Uh-huh. The prophecies so
[3636.4s] abundant show that abundant by the way
[3639.0s] the prophecies we have been learning
[3641.4s] here talking of
[3645.6s] what see
[3648.0s] schools I will show you the commandments
[3650.5s] in schools now they look the so
[3654.1s] prophecies are
[3655.5s] what so abundant showing that now
[3658.2s] there's time that have been
[3660.1s] presented let these people present
[3662.2s] ourselves to Christ today loving the
[3664.4s] church, being the church, giving
[3666.2s] ourselves for it, giving ourselves for
[3668.1s] the church. This people I say present
[3671.3s] ourselves to Christ as his church. to
[3673.5s] love that church, to give ourel for it
[3676.0s] and to give ourel to it with all
[3686.2s] our you are not even reading these
[3688.5s] things with all efforts all the effort
[3692.8s] of whatsoever kind Uh-huh it will be as
[3697.3s] sweet was before this will be a holy
[3699.7s] church. So what will make a holy church?
[3702.9s] When we give ourselves for the church to
[3704.8s] the church and in the church and for the
[3708.2s] church and to the church this will be
[3710.1s] only not having a wrinkle or any such
[3714.5s] thing the church the pill and the ground
[3716.5s] of I will study student who always teach
[3718.6s] what the church is do you tell them
[3720.2s] about this
[3722.8s] education church without a wrinkle
[3726.1s] see amenal
[3729.4s] amen is this church having a wrinkle and
[3731.7s] spot
[3732.6s] serious
[3735.0s] the church is the pill on the ground and
[3737.9s] that was what in 2021 we were in this
[3740.9s] hall and that is where organization
[3744.8s] started was I want my church back oh and
[3748.6s] this was the this was this was 1 Timothy
[3751.0s] 3:14 and 15 it was look at that church
[3754.6s] is the church is the mill and the ground
[3756.7s] the support that the stay of the truth
[3759.1s] in the world the only means by this
[3761.1s] world can ever obtain truth is by the
[3763.0s] church. By the church. It may be that
[3764.7s] the church like the church of Israel and
[3767.1s] Judah will not of itself voluntarily
[3769.4s] spread that truth abroad to the world.
[3771.4s] The people may like Israel and Judah
[3773.8s] shut themselves within themselves. Shut
[3775.6s] themselves within themselves and turn
[3777.5s] the truth of God away, put other things
[3779.9s] in its place, shut themselves away from
[3782.1s] the world and thus fail to give it to
[3784.0s] the world. But if that must be so, then
[3787.5s] that church will be scattered. So this
[3789.4s] church is going to be scattered again as
[3792.2s] was Israel as was Judah amongst the
[3794.6s] nation of heathen and they in oppression
[3797.2s] and in bondage. So that is how Adventist
[3800.2s] found themselves in
[3811.6s] 201 will find the truth through the
[3814.4s] church. So whichever way it may be the
[3817.9s] only way that the nation can get the
[3819.4s] truth is from the church. So imagine see
[3821.9s] we took our children and they were
[3823.4s] scattered in the bondage but still truth
[3826.0s] came even in those universities did they
[3828.7s] get those
[3830.6s] truths people got it in other way if you
[3833.8s] joke and you think you escaping
[3844.4s] Please.
[3855.6s] Amen. Why don't you say amen? Amen.
[3859.4s] The only way that God's truth can preach
[3861.3s] the nation is through the church.
[3863.7s] Church. Therefore, This is how it is
[3865.8s] that the church of Christ who is the
[3868.1s] body of the c of Christ is the bail and
[3871.0s] the ground the support and the stay of
[3873.5s] the truth in the world. It is that which
[3875.7s] keeps alive the truth in the earth. Yes.
[3877.8s] How then how then can the world obtain
[3879.8s] the truth from me from me as of the
[3881.8s] church of the church when all my effort
[3885.2s] listed this question this question
[3888.2s] sister is going but he will come back
[3890.2s] and check it. Amen. Yes. This is
[3893.0s] important question.
[3895.0s] Yes. Read it together. How then can the
[3897.9s] world obtain the truth from me as of the
[3900.3s] church? The church. When all my efforts,
[3902.2s] all your efforts are enlisted. Are what?
[3905.1s] Enlisted. Uhhuh. And spend the world's
[3907.0s] occupation. My brother, are you seeing
[3909.6s] this? How then can the world bring good
[3911.8s] from you when 6 days you are employed in
[3914.2s] Lala community as of the church? As of
[3916.8s] the church. Then all my efforts, all
[3918.9s] your efforts are enlisted. What?
[3921.6s] Enlisted. Uh-huh. and spent in the
[3923.8s] world's occupation and in the world's
[3926.3s] philosophy of occupation. Can that be
[3928.8s] done? Can that be done? No. Sir, the
[3932.2s] world cannot see the church in me. The
[3934.8s] world will not see the church in church
[3937.5s] in that condition of things. In order
[3940.0s] for the truth to reach the world by me,
[3942.4s] who am of the church, it is essential
[3944.6s] that I shall do the work as the work of
[3946.8s] the church. Do huh the work as of the
[3950.2s] church. talking so that we may not
[3956.9s] get in order for the in order for the
[3960.2s] worldh in order for the truth to reach
[3962.4s] the world by me by me who am of the
[3965.5s] church who am of the church it is
[3966.9s] essential that I shall do the work as
[3969.5s] the work of the church the work as the
[3971.6s] work of the church if I am a farmer if
[3974.2s] and I
[3975.7s] think even in farming you will be
[3982.1s] Amen. If I am a
[3986.4s] farmer of the church. Hallelujah.
[3990.2s] Amen. Farmer.
[4002.8s] Amen.
[4005.9s] Farm pumpkin.
[4014.6s] And then you saying you are of the
[4019.9s] church beans. This is the whole of my
[4023.5s] beams now.
[4036.6s] If I'm a teacher, if I'm a what? A
[4038.9s] teacher. If I'm a teacher, I am a
[4041.0s] teachers of the church. I'm a teacher of
[4042.7s] the church. A representative of the
[4044.3s] church. A representative of the church.
[4046.2s] I do my work as the work of the church.
[4048.5s] I do my work as the work of the church.
[4050.6s] Therefore, therefore this calls that
[4052.7s] every one of us who profess to belong to
[4054.8s] the church shall so really belong to the
[4057.2s] church that everything in our lives
[4059.4s] everything in our lives in our actions
[4061.4s] in our actions everything that comes in
[4063.4s] the course of our lives shall be
[4065.1s] distinctly of the church was that how
[4067.0s] pioneers
[4068.3s] were pioneers
[4074.9s] among working in the world he was a
[4077.3s] lecturer and also a pioneer
[4093.0s] Okay.
[4098.6s] It reads, "Huh, therefore, therefore,
[4101.2s] this cause that everyone of us who
[4102.6s] profess to belong to the church shall so
[4104.8s] really belong to the church that
[4106.2s] everything in our lives in our actions,
[4109.5s] everything that comes in the course of
[4110.8s] our lives shall be distinctly of the
[4113.0s] church shall relate to the church and we
[4115.5s] will hold it up the glory of God as of
[4118.2s] the church."
[4119.4s] this the last one. Then then that church
[4123.4s] will be so filled with the truth and
[4125.5s] will be so sanctified by the truth with
[4127.8s] which she is filled that the glory of
[4129.8s] God which is in that truth will shine
[4132.0s] forth. The world will see her that
[4134.2s] glorious church which will be discussed
[4137.0s] everywhere by the world. That church
[4139.2s] that everything is for the church. You
[4141.2s] teach us the church. The glory of the
[4143.8s] Lord shall be seen upon thee. The word
[4146.6s] will be fulfilled that she shall rise
[4149.3s] and shine for our light is come and the
[4152.1s] glory of the
[4154.8s] Lord and the Lord is risen upon her. You
[4157.9s] know that is so now all these only to
[4161.7s] have said in other words that in the
[4164.5s] days of the voice of the seventh angel
[4166.8s] when he shall begin to sound the mystery
[4169.2s] of God shall begin to sound. The mist of
[4171.2s] God shall be fulfilled as he and declare
[4173.8s] to his son the prophets. That mystery of
[4176.3s] God finished is the gospel preached to
[4178.6s] all the world that the end may come.
[4180.8s] That ministry of God is finished in the
[4182.9s] world is the work of God finished in
[4185.8s] preaching the gospel to the nation. And
[4187.5s] it is more than that. Along with that,
[4189.8s] the mystery of God is God manifest in
[4191.8s] the flesh. The finished mystery of God
[4193.7s] is the
[4195.3s] completion the perfection of the
[4197.9s] manifestation of God in the flesh in the
[4200.1s] believers in Jesus who belong to the
[4202.1s] church. Thus there are two place
[4204.7s] occupied in the finishing of the mystery
[4206.2s] of God. One place in the world itself to
[4208.9s] which the gospel is to be preached, the
[4210.8s] other place in the lives of the
[4212.0s] believers of the truth. We might preach
[4214.0s] and proclaim in words to the ends of the
[4216.6s] earth to every soul on earth in our
[4219.8s] generation. So that phase of the work
[4221.8s] will be completed will be finished. Yet
[4224.9s] if the manif manifestation of God in the
[4227.1s] lives of those who preach that is not
[4229.1s] completed also we could be that thing
[4231.6s] 10,000 years and the end will never
[4234.3s] come. It is not
[4238.5s] simply yet if the manifestation of God
[4241.8s] in the lives of those who preach that is
[4244.3s] not completed also we could preach that
[4247.0s] thing 10,000 years and the end will
[4250.6s] never come. is not simply that the
[4253.2s] gospel shall be preached to all the
[4254.6s] world and fill all the world but it is
[4257.8s] that when it is done there shall be a
[4260.2s] people ready to meet at the hand without
[4263.0s] the finishing of the manifestation of
[4264.7s] God in the flesh of each believer there
[4267.0s] can be no finishing of the mystery of
[4268.8s] God that mystery finished God manifest
[4272.5s] the flesh mark it means that only God is
[4276.4s] to be seen in every act of life or
[4278.7s] believer so that in his life God is
[4281.6s] manifest only that is the finish of the
[4283.7s] mystery of God in the way that it counts
[4286.2s] and you know that if that way were open
[4290.1s] and God would take position and fill the
[4292.1s] lives of the 25,000 professed believers
[4294.9s] today it would be the easiest thing in
[4297.2s] the world to reach all the nation so
[4299.7s] that
[4301.1s] end you know the mystery of God is
[4303.4s] Christ in you the hope of glory then the
[4306.4s] finished mystery of God is the finishing
[4308.4s] of the growth the manifestation of
[4310.0s] Christ the believer So that we shall
[4312.0s] stand in this world in the image of
[4314.0s] Jesus Christ reflecting only him. That
[4316.6s] when the
[4320.4s] believers when the believers shall be
[4322.4s] seen only Christ will be seen.
[4325.0s] Everything that is said, everything that
[4326.9s] is done, every tone of voice, all that
[4329.7s] we are will only of Christ only. That is
[4333.1s] the finish of the mystery of God in
[4334.7s] truth in the way that it counts. And
[4337.2s] that is what has to come before the end
[4339.6s] can come. That is a child that presents
[4342.6s] to himself. Hallelujah. Are we far away
[4347.4s] from are we do you think we are going to
[4351.4s] make but we are we thank God we are in
[4354.1s] the line. We are going what is it?
[4362.9s] What is it?
[4369.5s] Christian studies in Christian education
[4371.8s] by EA Southerntherland.
[4377.1s] [Music]
[4387.8s] We can decide to be
[4389.7s] employed. It is our choice. The youth
[4392.3s] must decide for himself. But again, uh
[4395.5s] you have seen in your own word. By the
[4398.6s] end of the call here, we are going to
[4400.2s] make a call for those who want to be
[4401.7s] church members. By the way, Vuko, do you
[4404.9s] think we are going to make it? This is
[4407.7s] the
[4408.8s] problem. It is it is the biggest
[4411.5s] problem. So these talents which are
[4413.8s] being taught if they're not going to be
[4415.1s] of
[4416.4s] church they
[4430.7s] nothing have influence now read this
[4433.8s] loudly
[4436.2s] what's used is the preaching of the
[4437.5s] gospel today while six days out of seven
[4440.8s] paganis to get the intellect. What use
[4444.7s] is the preaching of the gospel on one
[4448.2s] week? One one day of the week while six
[4451.7s] days out of the seven paganism guys the
[4454.4s] intellect. That is
[4458.4s] why the
[4460.4s] school calls that those who are in the
[4462.6s] pagan system of education if they
[4465.0s] worship it is form of what? Godliness.
[4468.3s] I hope you used to do it best in West of
[4471.8s] God. That is why many people have gotten
[4473.8s] lost today. They were so powerful in
[4478.0s] church. Unless God help us. By the way,
[4480.8s] without the help of God, nobody can be
[4483.9s] found. But God is trying so much.
[4490.2s] Now
[4495.1s] every preaching of the gospel in one day
[4498.0s] of the week. One day of the week Sabbath
[4500.2s] while six days out of the seven paganism
[4502.4s] guys the intellect. Why dreaming of
[4504.9s] heaven or spend Why is it doing what?
[4507.9s] Dreaming of heaven or spend money to
[4511.1s] procelite. Money to pro money to proite
[4513.8s] means money to do what? To preach.
[4526.8s] So question why of what uses the
[4529.2s] preaching of the gospel on one day of
[4530.8s] the week while six days out of seven
[4533.0s] paganism guys the intellect why is she
[4535.4s] dreaming of heaven or spend money to
[4537.8s] proite while pagan education leads your
[4540.3s] own children by the hand okay even your
[4543.1s] children again
[4546.4s] weaves about their find a network of
[4548.4s] theories which blind their eyes to
[4550.2s] spiritual
[4551.7s] truths or students wake up to study how
[4556.0s] many dogs how many teeth does a dog
[4560.9s] have many dogs evolution
[4565.8s] there's wait in the word of the pres
[4568.3s] president ha of Chicago university say
[4571.4s] it is difficult to prophesy what the
[4573.4s] result of our present method education
[4575.4s] the youth will be in 50 Yes, we are
[4578.4s] training the mind in our public school.
[4580.8s] But the moral side of the child's nature
[4583.0s] is almost entirely neglected.
[4586.5s] The Roman Catholic cons insist on
[4589.4s] remedying the this manifest evil. But
[4592.9s] our Protestant churches seems to ignore
[4595.4s] it completely. They expect the Sunday
[4598.4s] school to make good oral public school
[4601.9s] live and die. And the consequence is
[4604.4s] that we will look at danger as real as
[4608.0s] us as any we had to face. Imagine that
[4611.9s] is what parents are doing to us.
[4621.8s] You need to
[4628.3s] teach why you in discipline is this one
[4631.6s] of use and then you school
[4638.2s] teachers next time on I think if a
[4641.4s] parent has refused getting this there's
[4643.9s] no need of bringing those children to
[4645.9s] come and destroy people's children who
[4647.6s] are
[4648.3s] struggling.
[4650.3s] Hallelujah. Times when may God help us.
[4653.7s] I don't want to talk much these things.
[4655.3s] I I don't want to rob them their power
[4657.4s] in Jesus name. Amen.
[4668.5s] We s over these
[4670.3s] things. Do you know one of the signs of
[4672.6s] the last days when Christ was about to
[4674.2s] go to heaven, he used to tell his
[4675.7s] disciples that I will be arrested,
[4679.2s] persecuted and on the third day and they
[4681.7s] were sad and after the sec few hours
[4685.4s] they were fighting for who is greatest.
[4688.3s] So one of
[4689.3s] the says that one of the we need to
[4692.5s] study closely the life of Jesus
[4694.2s] especially in the
[4696.4s] last week is final scene final scene is
[4700.5s] that the things will be taught to the
[4702.0s] people of
[4706.0s] God and then after 3
[4710.3s] days and then next
[4715.2s] time and then the following that Sign of
[4718.2s] the last
[4719.1s] days something for few minutes I
[4723.7s] know please God has given this ministry
[4727.0s] powerful message and those who would
[4730.2s] want to go to heaven will have to
[4731.8s] separate let me tell you the pioneers
[4735.3s] did a great work some were teachers some
[4737.9s] were medical missionaries they ate and
[4740.1s] they were working all their money that
[4741.8s] the money they were getting was for the
[4743.1s] work of God and their families did not
[4745.3s] sleep hungry today we don't believe in
[4747.2s] that in churches some like in Nairobi
[4750.7s] and other places is they taught that oh
[4753.0s] Daniel the same word of Daniel it is
[4754.8s] being used by the GC
[4759.4s] the pray for us there's a announcement
[4763.7s] in our people want to be taken managers
[4767.2s] so
[4769.8s] manag don't dream of
[4772.6s] heaven that is those are not my words so
[4776.2s] sum Amen.
[4802.0s] Even if all even if we are going to get
[4804.5s] lost but the name of God is glorified.
[4807.2s] Amen. That is
[4810.2s] called he tells he was praying when we
[4812.8s] were starting young evangelist. You
[4814.5s] remember that old one who came said even
[4817.2s] if I get lost let the name of God be
[4819.8s] what? glorified that grace of God was
[4823.3s] sufficient to me and I rejected.
[4834.4s] So, Amen.
[4845.9s] Don't dream of
[4853.1s] heaven. I wish no heaven in Jesus name.
[4858.0s] Other questions tomorrow in Jesus name
[4861.4s] or any time the committee will decide to
[4863.5s] put questions and answer. Was the
[4865.4s] question good? Is there somebody who has
[4868.3s] made a
[4870.1s] step? May God help us in
[4873.2s] Jesus. Who from those questions? Who has
[4877.0s] a special prayer for God's grace? Who
[4880.1s] has got you have realized you are not a
[4882.5s] church
[4884.4s] member and you want God to help you to
[4887.0s] be a church member, come forward. This
[4890.6s] is you know you are those are calls that
[4893.2s] people can
[4895.4s] come come
[4898.7s] for
[4900.4s] marvelous mar 109 as people stand
[4905.7s] up
[4908.5s] 109 109
[4910.7s] here schools have greatest influence