Title: Career Shift in the 21st Century Faith at Work  | Young Professionals Convention 2025
Video ID: kR08WojgNcE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kR08WojgNcE
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
We are now going into our new session where we are having three panelists and I'll be able to introduce them in a short while. They will be able to share something interesting about their experience, what they've learned in their careers and even as uh as they explore entrepreneurship. I would like to urge you all to be attentive to be ready with your questions because they want to give us their real life experiences and I'm sure from there we can draw a lesson or two. So starting us off uh on my left they're actually all on my left so I'll just start immediate left is um and he's not new to most of us from Nairobi central is uh Mr. Maseneli and um I fondly call him Elder Masenueli. So you'll indulge me a bit today. So Gilbert Maseneli is a seasoned career police officer with over 35 years of experience. I don't know when we're looking at our years of experience with yours. Um there's still a long way to go from our end. Uh prior to his appointment, he was the commandant at the National Police College Embakasi a campus. He has been a certified fraud examiner. He has experience in many areas. The special operations group of the border police unit where he's coordinated multi- agency special security operations and the assistant inspector general of police where he's developed strategies for threat mitigation and advised on security deployments along border points. He has risen from senior superintendent of police to commissioner of police. He has quite an illustrious career and I am sure you'll be able to see the bio that will be projected on our screens. But uh in summary in his career he's also received se several prestigious awards including the moran of the order of the burning spear the order of the grand warrior of Kenya and the silver star of Kenya. He is currently the acting inspector uh general of police of the national police service. So I'll just ask him to wave and say something small. Thank you. Maybe maybe a correction. Yes, please. I was appointed I think it's for the general of police but currently I'm the deputy inspector general of Oh police. All right. So there's a correction where he said he's currently the deputy general. Right. Deputy inspector general. Yeah. Oh yeah. Of the inspector general. So thank you so much for that correction and we'll get to learn more about it. In fact, I would like to know how I'm able to venture into such a a field. Then next on um his left, we have Mr. um Silatto. Um I'm very excited to um sorry just to have him here. I have very many questions from my end uh because I tried to double in entrepreneurship and got scarred a little bit. So I'm hoping he'll give me some sort of encouragement. He has quite a very uh diverse background. He is an entrepreneur, a visionary one. He is a technology strategist and corporate leader with a proven track record in business development, IT solutions and strategic expansion across Africa. I think you heard from the last uh session we had about um embracing technology and I'm seeing from his very uh interesting bio that he's someone who's done that already. He serves currently as a CEO and founder of multiple successful ventures. So please take note of that. Prepare your questions uh including Selda Enterprise Limited, Dalinas company, Gemnet and DLO and company advocates. His leadership AC across these diverse enterprises has positioned him as a key player in technology, legal services and corporate innovation. He behind his corporate ventures because he's a man of many talents I presume he's committed to mentorship, leadership development and creating business solutions that drive economic growth. His ability to merge technology with strategic business execution makes him a respected thought leader and catalyst for progress in Africa's entrepreneurial ecosystem. Please uh you can greet uh our participants today. Good morning. Is it morning still afternoon? Sorry. Ah. Are we that wellfed that we have forgotten the time? All right. And then finally on the extreme left we have FCPA Rose Osoro. She is a member of the 7th Day Adventist Church. Married with five adult children. She has a very a strong passion for ministry and is a qualified master guide and chaplain. She served in very many capacities in the church. Uh for example, the children's ministry leader, vocation bible school, adventurers, chaplency and treasury. On a professional level, she is an award-winning governance and public finance management specialist. So please take note of that even as you're preparing your questions for this session. She serves on the boards of various blue chip companies and is a mentor and a coach who desires to serve the youth. Her life moto is like the adventurer's pledge because Jesus loves me I will always do my best. So please uh you can greet our participants today. Good afternoon. I'm glad to be here. So to start us off and this is mostly for my sake because I have many many questions. I just wanted to know Elder Maseni where did you grow up? Thank you. Thank you very much. Uh good afternoon once again. Good afternoon. Yeah, Gilbert is my name. As the motor has just said, I was born in a little village known as Yaloo in Bong where Buu uh that's the place I was born and I grew up in that area in that primary school when I graduate to joining form one. Then I went to Nakuru Nakuru Town High. After that I went for my degree that is undergraduate at Dan Kimadi later on currently I'm doing my PhD in international relations but before then I was born in a staunch Adventist family where I came my values like honesty, kindness and teamwork to others. Thank you. All right. Are you the first born? You You seem to me like a firstborn. I am not the firstborn. In fact, I'm the keyholder. I'm the last born. Oh, really? Okay. It does not show. How many siblings? We have eight siblings. Okay. Four girls and four boys. And so you're the last. I'm the last that. All right. Are you dotted on? Yes. Are you dotted on by your older siblings? Do they treat you specially? No, they are elderly. Yeah. Okay. But then some of them have passed on. All right. Yeah. Maybe God willing sometimes we'll meet with them when we reach there. Okay. All right. Um and Mr. To where did you grow up? Yeah. So generally as everyone grew up in the village I grew up in a village called Mu Ben. It's in Wasengishu County. Mu Ben location. Um I'm a second born of uh four siblings. I attended a primary school uh called Toita Primary School. It's in village as well. then proceeded for my primary secondary school in Nandi Hills called Samo High School and then I did um bachelor of science in engineering software engineering in Kenyata University then I later went up to Belgium for another program and then back to Kenya I did another masters in information technology and currently I'm also still learning I'm uh still doing uh courses pertaining my career I'm doing a micro MBA in Strasmo. Okay. As everyone has said, I'm also I was born in a an Adventist family. All right. Right. Okay. Interesting. What I am picking and I hope we are picking is that learning is a lifelong lesson for them even as you're looking at their careers. Um and over to you um Rose. Yes. Thank you so much for this opportunity. My name as you've been told is Rossoro. I was born in Kissi to an Adventist home and um I left before I was 20 years old. Actually, I came to university in Nairobi. I never went back cuz I I got married soon after. So that's where I grew up. My primary school, my secondary school in Kissi and then I came to university in Nairobi and over time I used to say that that is where I come from. But I'm more of a Nairobi person now than anywhere else depending on the years that I've lived. I it's going to a quarter of them having lived in the village. So I I don't know whether I qualify to be a Nairobi person or I still uh remain my happy place cuz always where I was born is my happiest place on earth. I don't know where I belong to currently that but that is where I am. I'm a second born in a family of uh six as you've said. I got married very early. I got my first child when I was about 20. Not by default, it was by design and um here I am several years later. Thank you. All right. Thank you so much for that brief introduction. So just based on I think I've heard Bong Muen and Kissy I I have not been to Bong. I feel very sad now that I'm from Western and have not been there but I think it's something I need to work on. So just based on your background, how would you say that has sort of inspired you in terms of shaping your upbringing, your views on work and career? I think right from the beginning, first of all, being an Adventist and I've been a a children ministry leader, we are lucky to have the environment that we have. You've got a learning environment right from the beginning. If you walk out there, you'll see the adventurers, the pathfinders, all of them. They keep learning. And that is what actually that is a program that I went through as a young girl growing up in the village cuz I knew you've got to go to church, you've got on Sunday, you need to go back again for clubs and all that. So that aspect of getting to know that you need to be organized, that you need to continue learning all the time, h actually opened the the the spirit of hard work within myself. So I really work hard as a person and um and I'm not saying that I work hard uh on opportunities that God has provided cuz I I recognize at the end of the day it's God who is who is in control in almost everything that I do. So those little traits that this church the the way we bring up our children determines who they become. like to an extent like um when I was in charge of uh children ministry I knew all my children will pass exams and no one failed all of them in Nairobi Nairobi who are there all of them like and I'm sure it replicates even in this church when you read uh those ones who have done well most of them are from our church it's because of the background that we have and that is the background that sets us as adults that is what has has given me as an individual a place to stand that one of hard work being disciplined and remembering those little rules. They look like rules and laws. My best one is that one because Jesus loves me. I will always and I underline I will always do my best. Thank you. Thank you so much. Um I will skip Mr. To and come to you Elder Mingeli. How has your upbringing shaped your views on work and career? Thank you. Uh it has been so dynamic because truly speaking at the young age at my village from Yalooi Bonga reaching a certain level Zoya comes in Zoya sugar company shifts my parents we all move now looking for other place now to live because the farm and the land that they had has now been leased out. We had to shift to both sides of Transoya. And on arrival in Transorya, we had to practice farming. And both large scale and at one moment you had to plan very well because planning is so critical in that you have to time yourself with the rains. You have to ensure that you are on top of things because if you don't plan well then you'll not harvest after planting and also we could ensure that that teamwork and now apart from plan planting and harvesting so what you look for the market as well where to sell so that you get back something and also something to eat and something to survive as business. By so doing it has really assisted us by ensuring and also teaming up with others because we had no machineries all of them that could do that. So at some moment we could go for those who have we hire at the same time after now harvesting we look for the ones that we'll use for as domestic and the others that could be used for other business and all these calls for a teamwork now coordination and proper planning with that you cannot be an independent without interdependence. Okay. Thank you. All right. So I've had hard work. I've also heard about interdependency and teamwork. Um so Mr. To how did your upbringing shape your views on career and work? Yeah. So for for me I think um my parents were very tough uh growing up and coming from a village where there is large scale farming and then used to tell us everything that I have there's none for you here. Uh my dad used to work in a university. So every morning he used to tell us uh you have to work hard and I remember during tuition time you will take us to university pair us with other you know um children from other faculty members and all that. That's a time I started you know getting interest in education. Personally when you are growing up in primary and secondary you're directionless cuz the agenda is to go to school. It's mandatory. you just finish and go home. So in the year 2000, I think that was the year when there was computer era and I remember um we used to go to the institutions and play games with the computers. So the interest arised from there when I started now learning more about doing computers and uh you know um getting interest about how the computer brain works and all that later um but earlier in the back uh my idea was to be a pilot which I still believe I will be if not I will own one. uh so that idea went through I didn't manage to go to you know pilot school um so I pursued uh education all my siblings went through a same but the agenda of going back to campus uh to do engineering software engineering was because in the village everything was about the computer era that moment and it was not about I know parents were telling us do engineer ing do uh medical, loss, legal and all that. But the interest came because everyone was about you know computers and I'd actually had a interaction with a computer playing on a um playing pool you know pool table in computers. So that time it was not common and I used to learn how things can happen in a screen rather than on a real service where we can actually touch. So to date I still appreciate my little growing up from my village. Um and unfortunately most of my area village um chose to be farmers to date. They are still farmers big time farmers. uh we accounted actually for those who did engineering and you know computer science like us. So that was the path. Okay. Where we was there any because I you you talked about 2000 and technology. Was there anyone you were looking up to aspire or you were just trying it out? I was actually trying you see again in Adventist we were told Jesus is coming you know in the year 2000 and and and everything was about computers. Okay. All right. The interest was actually from this computer whether the computer will shut down because again everything is going back. Um the interest came from there. Okay. All right. And to you uh FCPA Rose, how did you manage to start in your career? Did you have a particular person that inspired you or conversation with someone? Uh many people. Mhm. Especially when you have a listening ear. First thing that ever ever influenced me during our time if you went to campus and became a teacher you actually got a job. You were employed by TSC immediately after campus. And uh having coming from um a background where our family actually required more money that could have been the best thing for me to do go and do education. But unfortunately I was not selected to go and do education. that time when you are selected you actually do what you selected for there's not there's no room for maneuver you can't change you go to university if they tell you you do anthropology I've seen one talking about anthropology that anthropology is the one that you do so I find myself in the university of Kenyata University doing bachelor of arts and we used to call it bachelor of anything you know like there was bachelor of education bachelor of science but this was bachelor of art that we could call bachelor of anything and I knew that for me to get myself out of there, I needed to be kind of extraordinary. I didn't fight it back. I know my friends who fought back and they were moved to the education department because it meant they'll get a job thereafter. I said I am going to work around what God has given me. And that is exactly what I did. By the time I graduated from campus, I had two diplomas already by the side because I knew if I go with a bachelor of anything to any employer, the employer can't give me a job. The employer will only give me for the add-ons that I already have. So by the time I finished, I had two diplomas on personnel management that time and I was not ready to go and face the market and I knew specifically what I wanted to do in campus. If you do very well, you are a bright student. the lecturers surround themselves around you to tell you now we'll give you a scholarship you come back and do masters I told them I'm not going to do masters not now I'm going to do masters but not now because I knew if I do masters then I'm going to end up being a teacher I said I'm going back into industry and I must go out there and work in industry that's how I ended up now doing CPA CPS that's how I entered into that field of of finance out of default I did bachelor of art sociology and ministry encompass but you ask me those things now I don't have them I they got lost along the way but people tell me they build my finesse because I can be able to communicate I can be able to look get to to understand the history the dynamics of people groups of people which most of the science people don't have yeah thank you can I rightly conclude that while you're saying that you did not practice it the bachelor of arts it provided you with the right foundation to be able to build up on other things. Exactly. I don't regret the many papers that I did, the many learnings that I did. All of a sudden, I was required to work extra hard to excel. That was the base of everything else. Whatever I am today, it's because I walked in those cumbers. Yeah. Thank you. All right. Thank you. And to you, Elder Maseli, I'm actually very interested because I don't know anyone with a background in yours. You're the first person I'm meeting. So I would like to know how do what inspired you to pursue this career? Thank you. Yeah, the journey to becoming a police officer was not premeditated. Mhm. While I was back in school, I thought I could become maybe an engineer or a teacher because we really respected teachers in our village. Yes. But still while I was still a little boy looking after the hearts of my parents at some point you could see people running across the river. Then when one reaches you you ask why are you running? Then the word is police. Then you join the work of running away at the top hill. You find that they are running after the police because of that police brutality. They get hold of you. They beat you up. But later on I found myself going for a recruitment exercise after being laid off as a untrained teacher. There's some point where the president is excellent the late president Moy laid off some teachers because of the schools not doing well in rift valley. I was one of the UT and trained teachers by then practicing awaiting to join from five and six. But little did I know that in that transition I could get a job by just going to the field and I was a footballer at that young age. That propelled me also when I went to the field for exercise of selection I managed to be in a good number at the end of the day. Then I found myself having been recruited. Oh okay. And now I found myself being a police officer after training and we've gone through many stages but initially it was not premeditated. Okay. You just happened to find yourself and you took advantage of it and grew. All right. Interesting. Who would you say has been the most influential person uh that has shaped your career? I'll start with you. Sure. Uh at the young stage my parents and my elder siblings were very influential. The time we could put our heads under their roof at some point you could hear that sound of early morning in the KBC radio. Then you could just know no sleeping anymore. 2 minutes you are woken up you rush to the school. Now that was a trend. We had to learn about that. But still the that arch of teamwork, working together, eating together and if you are late from coming and joining them to eat together, then you could find yourself nowhere going to the farm, you could call whether it's Sunday, you call all of you guys together and you have to work because you'll get your portion. You have to cultivate that area till you finish it and to some point you had to make sure you have to team up. You have to work hard and ensure that. But on workplace now the influential Kais are the guys who are doing better and the very best in the service. Right. Okay. So what I've heard also is that there was no room for laziness. Sure. In your home household. No. survive. Okay. Interesting. Uh who would you say Mr. To was the most influential person um in your shaping your career? Yeah. So I I think first and foremost was uh my mother. My mother has been a businesswoman since uh I knew and when I was I joined employment. My first employer was university. uh I met one professor who was actually he held up my hand and told me I know you've done software engineering in campus but where I want to put you is not relating to your academic but I would want you to do something there so he threw up me in the library so and I thought probably I will now start wiping books and you know that perspective of your degree actually what came into my mind then was this a brain in the drain where everything that I've learned is now going to wastage. So when I joined um you told me now I needed to develop a platform for libraries to access and that university had over around 15 branches. So we developed a solution and based on that uh the opportunity came uh a funer organization that funded the project to expand. Mhm. Uh which was from Belgium. Then I met my mentor my first mentor now who is a Belgian who had 12 degrees. Wow. Uh Mr. Eggbad Smith. So he pushed me so hard to develop a platform that was not necessarily for Africa but for them in Europe that is Belgian and the universities in Belgium. So but when I came back home um I was appointed again by a consortium of universities to be the chair and to lead in terms of negotiating for e content Mhm. in the region. So we used to meet uh publishers in Europe negotiate for content for Kenyan market and content in this case I'm talking about electronic books and e-journals. So that was in 2013 2014. Then when I met uh another gentleman who is now my current partner who was actually a representative also from India and we saw a niche and we came up now developing a solution that was really a painoint to give access to resources remotely. So we developed a platform. So then he pushed me and told me you have to resign from your employment. And it was a tough tough decision for me to make. But the beauty is my wife stand by me and she told me yes I will support you. I'll pay the bills. Oh wow. And I will as long as you try. So I left my employment uh without notice. To date I have never collected even my due but I think I'll go back soon. Uh so from then then we started looking at business from that direction building solution for universities and colleges and we didn't knew that it was the right solution at that moment. It took like um different trajectory and and getting more needs in the market as well. So we grew up very fast to an extent of getting over 500 clients in Africa. So that is when I realized oh I'm in business. Okay. But previously I was just trying like everyone else. Yeah. So that has been my genesis. My I think my mother was the most crucial when she was pushing me for for this and she's been telling me try. I know you can. And then also my wife and my mentor. All right. Interesting. You said something that I wanted to just maybe drill down on. And you said you circumstances pushed you from employment to entrepreneurship. Where did you get your first source of capital now that you did not keep to be honest I never had a capital uh to start with I think the social capital is what I had. Mhm. Um I I used to visit and to ask institutions if the solution works then you pay if it doesn't work leave it. So that is I I never had a a capital to start with. Mhm. But people of course was my capital investment. Were you working with someone in particular to develop the solutions? Sorry. Were you working with a partner to develop the solutions? My partner was pushing me to do it. Oh, okay. He was also I was also pushing him to do it on this end. What I ask is was there an agreement between the two of you that you'll perhaps delay in terms of getting your income as you push to uh explore? No, initially there was no agreement. It was just mushial angry men in in courts, not informal. All right. Okay. Thank you for that interesting background. And to you, uh, FCPA Rose, what whom would you say has been the most influential in your career? One person, it can be many. My primary school teacher the one who taught me from class one as we never used to go to nursing school those days from class one to class 4 by the time I was in standard 4 I had under his care it's called I even is my friend to date I had read every single book that was in the Kasm village library that was there under his Yeah, I I think for and and he actually knows that is that is the person who influenced who I am today like I can be able to study. Uh I'm able to remain focused if I take a book I read. I love reading a lot. All that came at that point that I I met the teacher that I met that time. Yeah. A class primary school lower primary school teacher. Okay. And he followed me cuz those days there were lower primary school teachers. So it took me from class one to class three. Ideally he could have remained in lower primary. He said no I'm going with you to the same. So we went class four now being taught by more many other teachers four five. I think he left that school in class 6 and it has been transformational. Right. So interesting that you talk about a teacher being influential and I think Elder Masingeli alluded to it in terms of that's what everyone aspired to uh when we were growing up just in terms of looking at teachers and how influential they were. Now if you were to go back imagine you have a time machine and you would go back to your 18-year-old self just before you entering campus or pursuing a career. What advice would you give your younger self? I'll start with you. Uh it is scary why how the uncertainity that time but I'm doing a budget of anything first of all jobs in this country are not coming by any soon and I'm a mother already could I just say that by the grace of God can I remain where I There's nothing you would tell your younger self. It's a journey. It's a journey and and it's a journey of uncertainity. You actually don't know what is going to happen tomorrow. But by faith, by remaining focused, by looking for those opportunities, not looking for grabbing those opportunities cuz opportunities are like windows. They go like this. If it if you miss it, you will have to wait for it to come round again. As it does like this, you're able to pick those those opportunities as you move forward and with the guidance of God cuz sometimes you you will be picking something you think is an opportunity then it turns out to be something else. So with the guidance of God, I think if 18 years I surely could not leave the presence of God cuz I know what it means. I know what it means. So is is that it? I hope I've not scared you. The thing is the road ahead is pretty well. The road ahead is good. It's a journey that we need to walk one day at a time. But we need to do that with faith, understanding, listening all your ears, 360 scanning so that you can be able to move forward. You blink like this, the world will leave you. Thank you. All right. Thank you, Mr. To. What would you tell your 18year-old self? So if you are to take me back to 18 years, I think one thing I will do currently I've done many mistakes. Yes. In business that if I go back I will try to streamline. Um to myself I will start immediately business after campus. I will not want to be employed. Um but I don't know from you if you like to do business I will always say don't try don't put a foot in employment and another foot in business you'll not make it you just have to choose one if you want to do business focus on that and start immediately so for myself I will immediately go back to roots and start proper business as it should be okay so you'll go back and be a very confident entrepreneur Absolutely. Okay. All right. And to you, Elder Masangeli, what would you tell your 18year-old self? Thank you. For sure. Sometimes experience is the best teacher and with experience you can never hand over. Lou, if I would touch the young Masenueli today is that to embrace self uncertainity because there are no careers that have linear progression. They are always so dynamic and also to assure that the faith is not just rigid on a blueprint. So the 3s you have to accept, you have to adjust and you have to advance because in this regard in most cases humility, humbleness and also being flexible. If you would ask yourself between water and rock which is stronger perfect but another one will tell me might be a rock. So in this I would like to say that patience patience is the strongest weapon one might have and also with wisdom is the richest wealth that we can get. Also bearing in mind faith should also be there as our weapon. Okay. You've you've talked on wisdom and I just wanted you to maybe give me a bit more color. How do you obtain wisdom? Wisdom you just get it from God by humbling yourself before God asking his divine intervention and also doing what you are supposed to do. And when you do to others it turn to you, you don't feel offended. Right. Okay. Thank you. I think we've had quite a very elaborate background of our three panelists and I'd like us to move to the second session where now we align in terms of talking about the career and business shift in the 21st century faith at work. So this is where the rubber meets the road and we get to just understand more in terms of what you are currently doing. I would like to urge you please continue sending your questions in mentimeter so that we can ask our panelists as we go on. So to you um FCPA Rose, what notable changes have you witnessed in the in careers and the world of work in this century? Thank you. Um I mean um even having done history and sociology, I still consider myself a scientist. The what fits me now is math. I'm in accounting and uh the shifts that I've seen in my lifetime probably I never read any of that shift in history I have seen us moving from mathematical tables anybody who knows a mathematical table I love table you do to calculators to computers now softwares sophisticated ones that is the shift that we see uh to a next day now like a class 8 goes into an exam room with a calculator I don't know whether to go add four and five something that we never used to hear about that shift is evident but essentially what has happened what has happened is that what you spoke when you started there are no jobs for life I find it a little intriguing that you actually and I see it with my daughters. My daughters get their jobs on LinkedIn. Is it called LinkedIn? That's where they get their jobs from. Somebody wakes up in the morning and said, "I'm going for work." You you try to understand the job they are doing. You try you really cannot understand. Most of the time they are working from home. How does that happen? you know as as parents of as parents of our older generation those are the shifts that we are actually seeing and we are seeing them in the workplace the ones who are telling you I am going to work from home if you insist I come here then I'm not coming I won't come cuz they they are not as deprived as we were before you know some of us if you say you're not coming to work where else do you go then they probably have a house back to their parents home and they fold and they go or they've made plans so that shift one that I I see mostly that one like there's no job for life. I've worked in the same organization since I was 26 and I'm going to retire there. I've had inters here and there going out of the organization but I've worked from there since age 26 and I'm going to retire in that organization. I'm almost certain that that is going to happen. Another thing that has changed is leadership positions are changing. There was a time when we grew up in this city. You will walk to lift and you will see lift say job group N and above and if you're not in job group N you are not going to enter into that lift. Do you ever see that these days it has gone. So th those leadership thing uh positions that used people used to hold if you see your boss from there you are going to go like this but now these young people that ones who employ these days pass by and they say you hey hi Rose how are you that is something that we never used to think of and it's a huge shift that leadership positions all of a sudden we are all flat we are team members we sit here we are team member even even if you are the leader of the member in fact the leader is even more servered than the team members because you need to go down for the members to to perform. That is what I see in terms of shift. We have no lifetime jobs and then this leadership thing is actually ending these days. And I suspect my daughters could be earning more than I do and I've done centuries of work, decades of work. But they know how to negotiate their their pay, their terms as we used to go in and you say is there we used to call it career progression. What is you fit into a program that is already there? So if you came in yesterday, there is no way I'm going to pass you because I've come in today. But these days that shift is broken completely. So you come in, you negotiate your own terms and you continue working with your own terms. I work for government and we are seeing we are being forced to take care of that cuz a child will come in and tell you I am going to take this job. Yes, but this is the type of this is the salary that I need and you critically need that skill. You're going to to take that skill and and employ them as as you can. So that is the shift for me I've seen and it's scary. We are leaving it. The idea that there's no mudsi these days there's no mudosi we are all work we are all working you are the co your office is there and my job is here and we are all work and we are all working that is what I see as the greatest shift in terms of work okay you've preempted one question I wanted to ask you've talked about the flat uh or lean structure at the work workplace and not having a hierarchy um is that something you have readily embraced or it has taken time We have no option, okay, but to impress it, okay? Because it has come knocking. If it could have come like 10 10 years ago, probably it could have been a shock. But now we've seen, you know, some of the the people are doing it are our children. They're the ones who are challenging and we already know how they react. So it has come in slowly but surely and we know it is a total shift. The workplace is changing totally completely to something else that we we are now into teams. We are now into into into the flatter organiz they're not lean but flat flatter do your job go do your job go give my assignment I do if I have finished it by 8 that is my problem I go if I decide to do it at night while while you are sleeping it's my work I'll do it wherever time I want to do it and I'll deliver the point is have you delivered okay all right thank you uh for that so I'll shift to you elder maseli just building on what she's talked about the career shifts I think I've heard techn technology there was the gap in terms of demand and supply of jobs. She's talked about the structure in terms of the leadership and you are in a career where there's a lot of hierarchy in structures. um one maybe the first question I'd ask is the change that she has mentioned do you see it in your career that's the first one and then the second one with these shifts that we've talked about uh I mean with these changes that we've seen what mindset shifts should the young people have to be able to adapt to the current situation at the workplace thank you the changing professional landscape today demands that young people should not be rigid to one job that they are linear to and to be specific is that mental framework is critical in this. Okay. What my sister has just talked about is very critical because it is a progress and a way of embracing continuous development by moving from stage one like police. You could kill uh you are recruit, you are a trained junior officer, you untrained police officer, then you go through the ranks because of that embracing of continuous learning and with embracing of the continuous learning will keep you to the to the framework to get to where it is. Okay. The other thing that you've asked about the structures the hierarchal the hierarchal yeah structures structures fine they are there and with police is a service whereby is structured in a way yes is yes or no. In this regard also we have to apart from embracing the continuous learning the way she has said is also develop that adaptability and good relationship with others as well as being in a position to ensure that you assist one another. also embracing that change of mindset. Mindset change in this regard is that now that at school you are focusing to be a teacher. The way I wanted to be a teacher like an engineer but later on I got the unexpected opportunity that landed my way and took it up. So whatever you get make good use of it. And also don't just go to school and say now I have the papers I can sit and wait for the job to get you. So is you to get the job or the job is to get you. It depends. So with the background from where I came from, this is a calling whereby you have to work hard to come out of your way to ensure that you do it exemplary to achieve what you want to get. Do you have anything else to add or Yeah, there's Okay. All right. So I think I've heard you've talked about the mental fortitude, adaptability, there's networking and there's one you keep saying and I think please take note of this. You've talked about interdependency and just that networking that helps you to be able to um adjust to the current environment and innovations as well and innovation. Okay. Thank you. I'll take note of that. And to you Mr. uh to what as we talking to uh young people, what practical steps can we as young people take to build successful and sustainable businesses or careers? Um I think at the market right now we have to look at um skills that are relevant in the profession. I'm saying this because um at the institutional level we still see institutions teaching students the ordinary learning. What the needs in the markets are completely different. We have new technologies in terms of how do we read? Um I remember back when I used when I bought my first phone and we used to buy air time at around 500 shillings. Nowadays it's getting to a point where air time is not necessary but we are buying bundles. So if if we do not have policies at the national level to help institutions come up with the needs um skill sets for the current market that there is a problem. I feel in the market there is a lot of uh changing requirements that we have to adapt and for that for us to be at par. We have to be continuous learning. Uh we have AI in the market. Deepseek is just here. Next year there will be another one and so many inventions and you know technologies that will come aside. So but how do we adapt to that market sector? As most of them have said panelist here we have to be continuous uh you have to upskill your skill set in the market. Yes, you can have your degree. To be honest, everyone now has degree. Everyone has masters. Almost everyone has is now doing PhD. But what are you doing in the market field? Are you trying to go and solve a particular need in the market side or you're just doing your degree just because it's a requirement probably maybe from your parents and not yourself. So changing requirements are always in the market. Even as for us in the market, we are always at par in term in in terms of trying to make sure that we address the requirements from the users. We receive request from clients and trying to fit and provide a solution that will work for them because unless you do that then um you will be overtaken by event. As you know now we are in the market of Gen C. Gen Alva is about to bubble which is more critical I think and we have to look at what are we bringing them how will the market consume these people. So I think for now we can actually look at market skill sets that are relevant as per the requirements in the field. Okay. I want to ask a little more of a personal question. So I've finished campus. I have this idea. I've written a business plan. I'm coming to you. I have a business plan. I have not tested it. How do I move from the business plan to make it a tangible business? Oh, question to me. Yes, please. Yeah. So, first and foremost, uh there are relevant courses online there. There are courses online that can actually, you know, help you start up. Um I don't know whether you do Corsera, Udemi. Uh these are platforms that have the best uh content that each and every employee is looking at. I remember there is a time I went to Europe the first time and I was bragging that I have masters and I noticed that my degree was just for Kenya. But because I had additional professional courses that I had done before in the market uh that actually helps me to think about it uh and and and I will always encourage people even for a startup when you want to start up something you have to do a bit of research you don't just wake up and do something otherwise everyone is doing it. I remember recently um let me not part the institute but I got a vice call from one vice chancellor and say silas I am tired of hosting my infrastructure in the institution please come and take everything I didn't have where to start yes we are technology provider but again thinking of hosting an institutional data was so big to me so I end up myself finding myself in river trying to buy servers. I bought servers. I prepare everything in place and I was ready to to host the content. And yes, when I got in there, I realized, oh, I can also do internet, I can provide internet. The need started from there. Got three or four institutions asking, can you supply us with internet uh offices and so forth. So what I saying is things changes from what you actually have right now. Tomorrow is something else. So you have to be open and open-minded person and to be able to accept what is happening in the in the market. Okay. I just please indulge me. I have another question because I keep getting so my background is in investments and one of the questions I keep getting every time when I'm um advising people who have startups is where do I get money from? I don't believe that money is everything to start up a business to be honest. Um if you want to scale yes market is I mean capital will be required but just if you have an idea there are many institutions that provide um sponsorship for an idea. I used to work at American Corner in uh Mo University and I was a program coordinator and we used to receive a lot of money for incubation for somebody who just come in and say I have an idea but I don't know what to do and we used to give a lot of money not in terms of physical cash but in trying to support the program and the place is still there in the city center I think pasa plaza fifth floor where if you have an idea and you do not have planned to start you don't have a budget You can just walk in there. They will give you um platform in terms of probably maybe hosting your idea, hosting your audience, you know, uh facilitating your program and everything just to start up. So there are always that point but you have to have a good proposal that actually attracts funding and they always there. There are many people outside there I can tell you for sure that they do not have you know um opportunity to spend but they will want to spend in your own idea and I've seen many companies uh putting up a proposal for the same and they have received millions of shillings. All right. Okay. Thank you for that uh very elaborate answer. Now um I think we had Winnie I think that was your name Winnie from Lovington um where she had asked the previous speaker uh just in terms of how she can be a mentee. So I'm going to just throw this question to all of you in terms of uh mentor mentee relation one uh do you have a mentor and I'll start with uh yourself uh Rose. Yes, I do. But not one. Many many in different fields. Did you ask them particularly or did it just come out organically? It's more of a relationship. Mhm. Uh like uh they know when they see you, you're going to ask a question. They know when you're going close to them, there's something that you require. And whenever they see something related to what you do, they'd reach out. So it's not like we have not signed a form that you are my mentee and you are my mentor and I'm your mentee. It's a kind of a relationship that we have and because not everybody has all the skills that you require from one person. So for me I've got different people. I call for different things. Like when I'm down and I need somebody to lift me up, I know who to call and I know how that conversation how how the the effect of that person is going to be on how I move forward. If it's a technical thing, I know who I'm going to ask or to consult in terms of technical issues. Yeah. So I I don't have one but for myself I've got a mentee that we have signed. actually have got two that we have signed and we keep tracking uh because she belongs to they belong to an organized uh organization and we they they've been brought to us. So we've got something that we sign and we track and uh and there are millions others who because you mentor them because you interact you mentor them because they are within your vicinity and they reach out to you whenever they've got an issue. So I can't say that uh probably my mentor is God like God is the person who stands there permanent and these other ones I plug them in whenever I require their services. Okay. And to you elder me um I can I safely assume that you have mentors? Sure we have menas. Okay. And in this regard to me it just happened organically. Mhm. With time along working and also getting the shared values, the working relationship and the likes made us just found ourself looking for the best guy who has values like me. But at the end of the day just occurred organically. And also in most cases when you get a mentor is a person who will transit you to make those shifts the bad time shift from your normal to what you are supposed to be in futureing your your your work. Also maybe just to go back a bit is that prioritizing prioritizing meaning and purpose of life. As our brother here has just said, it is important because with the young professionals of the 21st century, it is evident that it erodess the boundaries between the professional and the personal spares. Here is a calling whereby you have to be ready for anything, okay? any shift as it comes you take it the way it comes but it also needs a lot of agility a lot of flexibility and a lot of adaptability thank you okay and to you Mr. I will not ask the question that has been asked but maybe phrase it a bit differently. When how old were you when you had your first mentor? Um so my first uh I have three mentors to begin with. A professional mentor, spiritual mentor and a social mentor. Mhm. Um in terms of my career, I think my mentor has always been there. I never um when I intended to move to that direction, I went directly to him and request that uh should be my mentor and he graciously accepted but he has always been giving us also very rough time in business because he's always telling us the reality and the truth about business and through that actually it's very important that uh he's always there. Every steps that we normally make as a company, we normally inform him. Mhm. And he'll always give us an advice on uh what to do. Not that we can't do it, but all his advice has always been great. Is your mentor let's say on your case when they ask you to do something then you're having a next meeting and they ask for followup. He normally follow up and he normally comes even to the office at times. Okay. Yeah. And you see at times you need also to renumerate mentors. Um if you in that kind of closeness then and you are doing well then it is a good caseia to also pay him back. Yeah. Okay. So and in terms of spiritual of course um they're always there we always work towards uh pray I mean together um whatever you want to make a step you normally request and ask and you'll always give us advice on the same but what I can actually say in terms of mentorship is it is very important especially if you are doing business to have a mentor because you it's a reflection of what you do and because you are on this other side is always on the other side and he'll always give you a true picture of what the market is all about. Okay. Yeah. Uh thank you for that elaborate answer. Now in your personal um I think career when I'm looking at your professional life, what specific changes have you made to be able to just fit in with a changing landscape? I know we talked about it general, but I would like a bit more color from your end. Thank you. To me, policing work is not really a job. It's just a calling. Okay? It's a calling whereby you have to serve and protect. It's a calling whereby you have to make a choice. A called choice. A choice between two alternatives and the fixed so not to quit. A renunciation that one must make not once neither twice but you have to make it as many times as you are still on this job because as we talk today of the 21st century everybody's racing against time and whenever you race against time where speed is power you have to make sure you do that in order to succeed and success here knows no limit. You want to succeed today, succeed tomorrow, succeed day after tomorrow. In this regard, all this family is the pillar also moving near to the Lord by ensuring God guides you all the way along. Initially I could say that police are not natural are not human beings but I came to realize they our brothers they our sisters they our friends and just human like any other and also when you read of 1 Corinthian you see it first Corinthian 10:30 Mhm. We do all for the glory of God. Okay. Um thank you for that uh elaborate answer. I would move over to you um FCPA Rose. What challenges would you say you have personally faced in your career and how did you overcome them? Uh the first challenge probably is being a lady working in a man dominated field. Most times you find like you're the only lady on the table and uh it's not an easy thing to um first of all they kind of don't see that you've come there out of merit. It's probably out of uh gender aspects. So you need to work more put more effort than I could believe if you are um a man on that table. So for you to to to stumble your authority for you to understand for everybody to understand that you understand what is being discussed then you actually need to work extra hard. So and uh we have had sessions all over just trying to tell us that you need to to be you need to understand your subject matter you need to read read hard extensively anticipate the questions anticipate the issues on the table be the person who provide solutions so that you can actually gain trust from the people that you work with so that is how I've been able to manage like you work extra hard make sure you understand in the subject matter. Get be on top of things and and prepare extraordinarily and you will actually stand out when you are in in in those sessions. Uh a friend of mine who is an my mentor in the field of uh sitting in boards told me that the first time she walked into a board meeting, she's much older than me. People were asking like what is this young girl coming to do here? They did not understand what she was going to do. So she intentionally decided to read the pack the boardbacks there almost like a thousand pages. She read every single page and when questions were being asked in her heart she's like which question are you asking see that one is in page 200 that was in page 400 she understood what she was and that gave her confidence to engage adequately and for me that is what I call out be sure that I know what I want to do I know uh I I understand so that I can be able to showcase the the the the creator that God created because I'm God's creator and is the one who's given me all those capacity capabilities. So when I'm out there, it is workmanship that I'm actually displaying and I do that with uh a lot of um with no apology. I'm a child of God. Yeah. So that that that is one of the challenges. Another challenge that I have faced is that one of being in in in a in a predominantly people Christian but they are not Adventists. They're Christian and they're not Adventist. It's the the the the the divide between Muslim and Christian is almost automatic. But between Christian and Adventist there's they first of all they stand up they say h you are the person who don't do this who don't do this and it it actually stands out but for me I say I am an Adventist first and everything else goes so if there's a meeting that is going to be conducted on a on a Sabbath they know that I won't I'm not going to be there if they know they require my services then they will need to push it to another time you need to be very particular and something else that I need to tell every Adventist who walks in this city or in this country the Adventist who are ahead of us the senior adventist starting with the ones who the Aras ma who started they created a forum that can make us actually succeed almost in every field they've got imagine if you're talking about Ma Maraga for instance you're talking about Matiangi you know all those They've created space to an extent that some of us are even called Matiangi wherever we work and we are happy about it. The thing is we stand for what we are because we are Christians. We are seventh day Adventists and there are some we put boundaries. There are things that we don't do and and and because of that we are known for who we are for that. And I think it it makes life they can they can push you aside when they are doing their bad things but whenever they work want work to be done they will actually call you out and you'll come and you'll actually work. So uh for me those are the few things that I've I've seen challenges in the workplace and uh how to we've navigated the same every single day but prayer has to be persist I work in finance sorry for being too I I'm I'm an accountant and if you all know accountant in government what do we do accountant in government what do we do we audit you all know what do we do we audit accountant in government what do we do we steal now you are being you're being gentle to me because I'm here you see like people accountants do what in government if you're working in government what do you do still but here I am I've worked in the public sector since I was 26 and I have never taken a coin that does not belong to me and no child of mine has not had school fees or has slept angry I stand firm and that is what I even teach young accountants. I I I I train institute of certified public accountants and my topic is known if you walk into an integrity professional ethics and conduct you'll find my name top because me I pronounce it. I say I work in government. I am not here to steal. I'm here to work for the service of God and and humanity. And I'm I'm okay. I I I am not any different from my friends who I know have stolen but still they don't sleep at night because they are wondering when who is that knocking at at the gates. They they've put cameras everywhere to be sure they know he's working or they've got money they keeping in their houses and they don't know where to keep it because the police will come any other him he'll come any other time and and and pick it up. I have a sleepless I have a I I rest sure because I have not done anything wrong and it's doable. Not that I have not seen things being done. I have seen and I can count each one of them but I'm not in that. And they make sure I am not part of that. So we can survive in this in this world. Corruption, no corruption. We can actually survive as 7th day Adventist in the workplace and navigate comfortably. Thank you. Um I want to just drill down on one of some one of the things you've touched on on integrity as we are looking to finalize. So you've talked about integrity. What other tools or skills would you advise young professionals to use to navigate the workplace? First of all, other than the virtues of integrity, doing the right thing, be ensure that your employability is viable. Your employability is viable. And employability, I'm not talking like me who wants a salary or it's even like him who gets money from inter entrepreneurship. It could be self-employment. you. So you must be able to work around your employability and employability is to ensure that everything within you is right. Your technical capacity is right. Your integrity levels are perfect. Everything that works around you is okay. And on top of that, enjoy what you do. Enjoy what you do. Hold it with passion. Cuz where else could you be working? What else could you be doing? This is what God has given you. If if you you you you see a job like a small one and then you are like no I don't have a job I've got whatever you have please enjoy it work around enjoy en enjoyability and employability like are you a person have you ever seen somebody who is not unemployed who is unemployable have you they walk in our mid east somebody you are given you say no that one even for free I won't Yes. So, make sure that you work on your employability, understand the technical. If you are in marketing, get to know how to smile, get to know how to talk to people. If you build your technical skills as as a person and then scan the environment, get continuous learning that we've been told since morning on your field. Yeah. Thank all right. Thank you for that. So I've had both uh focusing on the soft skills as well as the technical skills uh to be relevant in this navigating um environment. Uh Mr. To um if I had to ask you to describe what a 21st century entrepreneur would look like, what adjectives or what words would you use? Innovation. Mhm. Um continuous uh innovation will be the key because uh when you look at the market as of now everything is changing um technology is changing as well today you know XY tomorrow it's something else so but allow me to say something about what you ask the other panelist yes please about the ethical aspect I think that's a very big uh challenge in business and um there are many challenges as well. Uh I remember the first time when I went to Nigeria to expand uh I'd been invited by over 200 institutions uh to give the product. But when I met one big vice chancellor who influenced the rest of everyone change everything and he told me um how much is your product? So I mentioned to him and he said add a zero at the end. Oh wow. And then you bring me the balance and then uh remember now you're a businessman you're trying to get the market there's opportunity of losing 200 plus institutions and there is this and he said I will make the payment immediately if you agree to that. So that night I remember I had to change I called my mentor my mentor was very important and he told me don't I changed my flight that night and I left the country so the next day um they look for me but they couldn't see me and this was a very big project that we've been actually trying to put in place for many years and and trying to put everything together. So in business there are always challenges even locally here. Um you give an invoice to government. Um they ask what is this? Our standard price is always constant and they will always delay your payment because there's nothing that comes out of it. So navigating on those issues requires somebody that has very firm principle of ethical issues. You must know where you are and for honestly we've lost a lot of business because of that and in standing in our own principle we've received much much more so you'll never lack actually that's what I can say if you stand on the right track of ethical um you don't want to be in the next office across here all right um because everyone has given the experience on ethics it it only makes sense that I also ask in terms terms of what struggles you've encountered at the workplace that challenge your faith. Thank you. With police work, you'll have a lot because you'll walk down the street, you get a police, a traffic police officer raising their hand, at the back of your mind, you think, I have to part with something. One thing is that various challenges could test one's faith, especially corruption. And unfortunately the community or the people have normalized corruption by baptizing them with very many names. Chaiiko Hiduko cost of doing business. Cost of doing business. Cost of doing business. Yeah. They have praised them with very many names and bribery and unethical behavior is a way they have normalized to overcoming problems. Getting things done the way they want even if it is an awkward way. They want to stop at nothing but ensure that they get their demand done and ethical behavior corruption will not take you anywhere. currently at the National Police Service, Inspector General of Police, the Deputy Inspector General of Kenya Police, the administration DIG and other officers. We have impressed a service delivery centered police to the people. We are striving to ensure that we get the best service to the police. where you walk into a police station you don't say that you know Meneli or you know Mr. Ka or Mr. you are served like any other Kenyans without without you parting with anything or without you being known by so and so also going ahead we are digitalizing the police work whereby it will make that meeting point because this corruption happens especially when you meet with your client this rec soon And more than very soon we'll be digitalizing the OP. And when the OB is digitalized, you will report a case at comfort of your seat at your house. Just say today so and so I'm so and so I'm reporting from this area that so and so has wronged me or has robbed me at this and this. Then the response will be there. them because we want to nurture a crime free society, a crime free society because we are the servants. We are just servants to serve and protect you by ensuring that you are served to the your level best. You are don't have anything or any problem in execution of your work at whatever cost and also we are trying as much as possible to ensure corruption free society because has been normalized by the society with the baptizing it with many names and to some point forcing these police officers to take something and the law is very clear the given the taker should take it to court and here now puts us in an awkward situation whereby you have to uphold your integrity, honesty and the justice because it will make you free. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Um we will turn quickly to the question and answer session and I see there are some relevant questions. So I'll start with you Elder Masenelli. Uh there's one that asks what is your biggest failure and given an opportunity to revert back to that point in time what could you have done differently? The biggest failure. Yes. Your biggest failure. Wow. This job is so dynamic because one thing for sure is that it's so challenging for me. My response in this question is that in life all things are not just you can do the way you want. At some point I've been a commander special forces for a long time and it calls for very good planning. You plan very well to execute your work very well. Some point when you lose one of your colleague you don't feel okay at any moment when you remember very well when the sun sets that one you have to count that you have one lesser day to live but at the sunset you have a lot of expectations as it at at the sunrise you have a lot of expectation But at the sunset you have a lot of experiences. But also at the sunrise you want to have some objectives done. You wake up in the morning. You want to go for a mission. You sit together. You draw say this the plan. This is the adversary. We are going for this war. Okay. You pray. You are 12. You go into the war soon. You come back. You are less by three, you are less by two. Then to you as a commander, you'll not fail it well because you think this guy should have survived. Mighty be he is one of your finest in that field. But some point you feel that you might have been the person who made this person to lose their life. But at the end of the day, we leave knowing that at one point we'll have to die. And for your information, the officers don't fear dying because of the problems that they've passed through. They've known that they will have to die at one point. And dying is normal. What motivates the officers is that the injured one that one who has in a problem how he's taken care of the evacuation they take care of that one the family that has remained behind but one thing most of the police officers are Christians nowadays because they know they pray God and they also believe and trust that one day they'll have to die because they know dust plus living P is equals to living soul minus living P is equals to dust and that's normal but they strive so hard that one day one time when Jesus comes back they're going to be among those ones who will meet him. Thank you so much. I know that you have some questions you've been uh wanting to ask. So I'll give this uh opport directly to the panelist. If you can have a roaming mic please. Some questions have been posted on Mentimeter, but I'll just give you a chance if you posted there to ask. Hello everyone. Hello. My name is Daisy Kwamoka. I am a nurse. I work at Madari Hospital. I have a question to Elder Maseni concerning mental health. What strategies have you put at at at your place of work on police concerning their mental health especially on high stress scenarios? Okay, we'll take uh two more questions and then please let us know whom you'd like uh to answer the question. Good afternoon. My name is Isaac. I'm addressing my first question to Elder Maseni. I'm afraid we cannot hear you so you may have to uh speak clearly. I'm addressing my first question to Elder Maseli and ask what should you do when an order conflicts with what you believe in is the right thing to do? What what would you do when I think an order or instruction from your superior conflicts with your belief? And then the other question is to Sil. What would you advise someone who already has a business and is employed? Should they quit uh the employment and focus on the business? So the question is to you. Uh someone is an entrepreneur and is also employed. So should they quit and focus on business or should they stay employed? Um we'll take one last question. My name is Bernard. I have uh three questions for all the speakers. So first to Elder Maseni. Uh we have situation may maybe you have uh been stopped by an officer and then you are can I just request if you can move uh so that we can hear you clearly we're struggling to hear you. Okay. Uh my question to Elder Meneli uh okay when uh maybe you have been you're driving and then an officer finds you in a mistake or maybe Yeah. and then asks you for some money or something, what's the right thing to do? Of course, sometimes some people will say that that's not your problem. Uh you have been asked. So, okay. And then uh a second questions to Sila. Uh how would you uh give a value proposition to a client or how do you ensure value proposition when you are pitching to a client about your services? And then lastly to to Rose uh same issue of integrity. uh when uh a client uh something was mentioned that uh you you give your your quote for your product or your services then a client ask for something on top. Uh same thing somebody will say that it's not your it's not your problem is the one the person who's asking is the one who is infringing the the company for you you're just giving the services. So if you are asked uh uh the issue is not in you. So what will you say about that? We'll take a pose there. I think are you ready to start? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Please go ahead. Thank you. Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start with the question that the sister asked from Madare. One is that at a workplace we have the [Music] structural faculties that deal with different areas. One, we have the medical team and we have the counselors that take care of our officers on mental wellness that might have been from the war area or so on. and also it keeps on monitoring. We have the access to all hospitals across the country to pay attention to when there is a problem of health or any case of that. But just in short, we have our teams of counselors who are trained police officers and also civilians that we team up with to ensure constantly we look at the welfare of the police officers working within and without our borders to ensure their well-being and also to cancel those officers who might have have that trouble of maybe getting out of that area they have come from or other activities like the Shakahola issue. We have the counselors because of seeing that body day in day out it puts you also in a different scenario. The most invited case in this republic are police officers because they enforce law and whenever you enforce law the more the law the more the breakers and whenever it's broken you automatically invite a police officer. police officer comes in at whatever scenario. So it depends with the strength and that level of that has aggravated of that harm also on but doing it day in day out they need to have counselors who we have the professional counselors within the police service. Conflict of interest. Conflict of interest. When you get orders, we are in a country that is ruled by the democracy and rule of law. As a Christian and as a police officer, you do what you are supposed to do as per the law. And lastly, when you are driving along the highway and you're stopped by a police officer who happens to be might be a traffic officer and says he wants money from you, then also ask him money for what? Don't give and he'll take you nowhere. Thank you very much. Or could we be assuming that he actually committed a traffic offense and if you've committed a traffic offense just accept you call the process as I had just said initially that the richest wealth in this world is wisdom as the strongest weapon is patience. But also remember security is your faith. So if you have committed an offense, just follow through the process and assist this officer by paying maybe the penalty because soon we'll also be introducing instant fines because I know most of the things people fear going to the police but soon later the instant fines will be on so that you commit a traffic offense you pay on the spot you continue with your job. You commit an offense, the camera catch you, you get a notification, you don't say, it will follow you after 3 days. You say, "Hey guy, you committed this offense on such and such a date on this street and you did not comply. Can you come and do it? You don't do it. You'll be arrested. You be taken to court of law. Thank you so much. I will move to uh Mr. To. There was a question I think two questions there." is I didn't get the names but uh I will try. I think the first question was about you are currently working and you want to do business as well. So I will say that um the reason why you are you you want to try business is because you are not probably getting enough from your employment in terms of revenue. So you want you're looking at supplementing your salary. Now I will say in business if you want to do proper business then there's always like I will put it as um binary it's zero or one it's either you are in business or you're in employment but for a startup who will want to roll out to business probably definitely you have to start with employment but to to your mind shifting towards entrepreneurship I'll always say that because there is this conception that in your own business you will be waking up the time that you will want um you know many other sorts. Mind you this other side is the vice versa. You'll know you'll don't have a sleep. You wake up very early. You don't know you'll get the salaries for the next month and and everything is actually on your mind. So you'll actually be carrying more problems than you are when you're employment. Um so shifting is good. It's better to start slow but with a mind of moving directly towards that. But again, you have to have a strategy. If you really want to do business, what do you want to achieve? Do you really want to are you in business because you are looking for supplement salary or you want to sort a problem or a niche. So those two things you have to define. If it's about money then I will say stay in employment. But if you want to solve a problem then the best place is to to do entrepreneurship to start a business. The second question was about um value proposition. I think we most um in the market we always feel that the client or the user understands your product. In most cases, you have to do an additional work ahead to try and understand what is the need in the market. What is the need in the market versus what are the competitors providing in the market and what are you coming in to provide the difference? Because you're not the first one. Everyone is doing the same. If it's about internet service, there are many internet service providers. what unique selling proposition will you put up in place? What are you providing directly to the client at the end of it all? That way then you will be able to provide um a product and then again when you are pitching a product of course that you have to put a call um for the sale you have to understand um what are the benefits of your product as opposed to the uh competitors actually what differentiate your product from the existing product that's what I'm trying to say so unless you identify that then your product will be as same as the rest of uh competitors in the market and you'll not be solving anything. Thanks. Thank you for that on the project product differentiation and and over to you. I think the question was on integrity, right? There was a question for UFC. It was on product and I think he has answered it. Okay. Yes. Is there was a Yes. Um Joseph, if you may please help him with the mic. Yes, I asked about when uh uh you are you are quoting maybe uh uh you're quoting a service or a product and then you are asked to put something on top so that you'll be fac facilitated. Now somebody will say that that's not your problem. you you just bring a service and then the other person is the one who's uh squeezing his organization or something. So what's your take on that tricky question you have asked the one who does the quotation cuz I don't and and and for finance people by the time we receive we actually interact with the documents most of the things have already been done procurement has been done everything we just actually pay our our our work is to pay so the other story of uh top up in terms of procurement happens elsewhere. So but uh if you want me to talk generally in terms of government uh cuz uh those happens and it it also takes two to tango there is the one who is willing to add the zero who doesn't want to take the fright out of the country and is willing to add that zero into the business and there's also the one who is out to do business but what we need to understand is that integrity center is across the board. When you do that, you are actually a candidate. You are just lucky. If you are not caught, then you are not a candidate. But if you are caught by those uh stories, then you are a a visitor of the building opposite our church here. So it it's corruption. It's a criminal offense. It's not something that you can defend. Yeah. Um thank you so much for that answer. I think there's one one last question and then we'll look to wrap up. Please. I'm Joseph and my question is you say do we like what we do? I'm pretty sure there are many of us whose jobs are not likable like they have every reason not to be liked. Do we go for therapy? Do we go for how do we get to like these things? The other question is um on faith at work. How is it to be religious? It is to all the panelists. Can you overdo religion or to what extent are you safely religious in your workplace or Yeah. And the last one is on a conspiracy to Elder Maseneri. Is it true that the officers have a target of taking the money upstairs? I've grown up knowing that. Thank you. Right. Please answer the question. I think about liking jobs. He he asked a question. I think he you had talked about you enjoying your job. So his question is what happens in the event that you're in a job that you do not like? How do you handle that? And what tools do you use? Why are you taking it in the first place? You're also taking it because of money. And also as you're taking it, remember that God is in control. some of the jobs that if you listen to even uh Arasa's manure this morning he said he was posted as an economist he didn't want it isn't it then he was taken to another place he didn't like it as such then he saw an opportunity then he went in it could be a path that God is actually defining for yourself it's only that you are denying and if you denying you are going to be in Babylon way longer than you could have accepted and moved on and looked for ways of improving yourself. So if you are in any job for money, get to understand how do you navigate out of it to be where you want to be. You are not there by accident. That one I know and I can underline it. You're not in that job by accident. What is it that God wants you to learn out of that job? Get to understand. First of all, don't blankly say I don't like this job. I don't like this job. And then you are waking up every morning I don't like it. Then all those windows of opportunities they will be opening and you'll never see them. If you are there recognize the hand of God because how many of you have gotten when you're looking for a job you don't get and when you're about to get a job you get like three opportunities at the same time. Mhm. That is how it happens and then you choose one. So this one that you have chosen like it love it to the extent that you are moving to the ne next one. You actually have no option if you are there because if you are not then the disservice is not to the employer but to yourself as an individual do your best that's what I say do your this journey is not straightforward it's a road so just follow the road as it goes have enjoy it as you go along the way that that's what I could advise okay thank you there was a second question I'd like it to be directed to Mr. And then Elder Masel will take the last one. You act you asked about religiosity or being over religious at the workplace or even um as an entpreneur. So maybe you can tackle that one. How do you handle it? Okay, I can go first. Okay. So I think our religion is known globally and there are norms that we are known for. There are things that we are known we cannot do. They even know that we are not drinking tea. You know I mean those things that has happened. I mean um in business I have actually received business because of my religion to one there's one customer who said uh I remember we were in conference in Lusaka and I got uh one of the organizers of the conference I didn't know that he was the chair of an institute he said because of sellers who is not around today and he mentioned that he's going to church let's consider him for a privilege and I got 35 five institutions in Zambia. I mean it's just because of decl I mean um proclaiming that yes this is your faith there's nothing else you can do but most importantly uh to your side what are you doing in your religion to be known outside there are you just here just to be known like you're an Adventist are you impacting knowledge to others are you making a change to someone else who probably not an Adventist or even who is an Adventist out there. So those are the things that from your side you have to critically analyze and make a judgment. I think that's Thank you. I think then there was one final question directed to Elder Masingi. Thank you. Yes. I hope if I remember the question is if it is true that the money that are being collected on the road are trajected upward. Was it so? Yes, I think so. Okay, one thing and a fact but it is by their own desire. That's the reason why many occasions you've had they have been arrested, they have been arraigned in court, most of them have been sacked because of that bad behavior. break because I'm at the top. I'm among the guys on the top and I don't see them. The fact is that do not give. And nobody will do anything just will take its way forward. And as I just said, be patient. Patience is the strongest weapon that you can ever have. The unlucky thing in Kenya, we are late. Whenever you get to a stage, these people are going to Nairobi, they are going to Mombasa. You rather enter the vehicle that is headed to Mombasa. But in real sense, it is a disguise is going to elate because you are late. You stand beside the vehicle till it is full. You want to enter when it is already full. But you are the first person. Who else will come to fill that vehicle if you cannot be among the first ones? So be patience and patience makes kings out of slaves. That is a fact because desires also make slaves out of kings. I want to urge the young generation to be very confident, to have patience and also to have wisdom because wisdom is one rich wealth that one will never have. Can I assume that's your parting short or do you still have more? No, it's yet to come. Okay. I would like Yes. Now I would like to give you a minute for your parting shot. Thank you. Thank you. and thank you for the opportunity as well. All right. You're welcome. I want to thank the young young generation the the professionals that we have because this time around the world nations and states do not only depend on their strength but also in the strength of prosperity of their people. So the innovations, the work you are doing, the skills you've gotten, they are all meant to empower you for a better future because you are the future. I have maybe one or two three things I leave with you. Take this journey of career as a calling. Take it as a calling. Whether it is technological, whether it's educational, whether it is health, but take it to be a secret place of God. You know, whatever you do, embrace God. Start a day, start study with God, finish with God at all times. There is nothing beautiful as assisting one another, being kind. I asked a question to the moderate and she answered perfectly when I asked her about who which is stronger water or the rock the cliff. Then she answered me is water. And truly speaking, water is stronger. Because that hardness, that rigidity does not make the rock stronger. Instead, it makes it weaker. But with the flexibility, the softness of water, it can traverse and call all over everywhere. I would say that as our young professionals, you are just preparing for shaping the world and the world depends on you. But as you do that, be kind, be humble and assist one another as you grow up. Thank you so much for that uh very uh words of wisdom that we will take with us. Uh to Mr. or what would your passing short look like? Yeah, I think uh as Elder Mangalia said um we are in the world of changing dynamics. Uh every time things change and it's erupt. I will always say for young professionals um be equipped with the market skills so that when the time comes we are the only one with the skills in the market. Unless we do that then we'll resolve back to our continuous problems and we'll always keeping complaints and saying government aunakasi killer left right center business is there outside there opportunities are there if I am to go back 10 years ago I will have not been um what I am as of now I will be somebody different continuously probably maybe a lot of mask. There are things that are changing in the market honestly that requires adaptability. It requires new innovation. It requires honest and open mind uh open mindset to take up the challenges. We should not be complaining as youth about opportunities that are not there in the market. They are always there. If you choose to be in employment, do it with all your heart. put all your efforts and you'll be rewarded in employment. And if you chose to be in business, put up um strategies, start early and you'll be, you know, rewarded accordingly. Thank you for that. All right. Thank you so much for that. And to you FCPOS. Thank you. Mine my parting short comes from the book of 1 Timothy 4:12 that says, "Let no one despise your youth." and that includes yourself. Please don't despise your youth. Instead, live as an example for your community of believers through the word. Some say through speech what comes out of your mouth through conduct or spirit how you hold yourself guarding yourself through the the guardils that have been provided by Christ as a Christian life by love and charity love is love you can't love yourself love is outward looking you need to love other people the way you are linking and connecting with the community have faith and when you're talking about faith. Know that fear and faith don't walk together. They cannot be in the same room. They are mutually exclusive. Where there's fear, then there's no faith. Where there's faith, then there's no fear. And lastly, you live by purity by ensuring that you abstain and run away. And I want to underline the word run away from all appearances of evil. We are human beings. We cannot be anywhere near the devil's level. So if you see a devil, please do what? Run. Run. Don't stand. Don't engage. Run from all that as an appearance of evil. And for sure God will bless you all your days of your life. Thank you. Thank you so much for that parting shot. Um I'm going to borrow my parting short from Elder Masenelli. And uh it says as we depart I challenge you dare to be both competent and courageous. The world needs professionals who do not just climb ladders but build bridges. Bridges of hope, equity and grace. May God bless you all. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[0.0s] We are now going into our new session
[2.2s] where we are having three panelists and
[4.7s] I'll be able to introduce them in a
[6.5s] short while. They will be able to share
[9.3s] something interesting about their
[11.2s] experience, what they've learned in
[13.0s] their careers and even as uh as they
[15.9s] explore entrepreneurship. I would like
[18.5s] to urge you all to be attentive to be
[22.0s] ready with your questions because they
[23.7s] want to give us their real life
[25.9s] experiences and I'm sure from there we
[28.2s] can draw a lesson or two. So starting us
[32.1s] off uh on my left they're actually all
[34.5s] on my left so I'll just start immediate
[37.0s] left is um and he's not new to most of
[41.7s] us from Nairobi central is
[44.4s] uh Mr. Maseneli and um I fondly call him
[49.0s] Elder Masenueli. So you'll indulge me a
[51.4s] bit today. So Gilbert Maseneli is a
[55.0s] seasoned career police officer with over
[58.2s] 35 years of experience. I don't know
[60.7s] when we're looking at our years of
[62.1s] experience with yours. Um there's still
[64.2s] a long way to go from our end. Uh prior
[67.5s] to his appointment, he was the
[69.3s] commandant at the National Police
[71.4s] College Embakasi a campus. He has been a
[75.5s] certified fraud examiner. He has
[77.3s] experience in many areas. The special
[79.9s] operations group of the border police
[82.0s] unit where he's coordinated multi-
[84.3s] agency special security operations and
[87.2s] the assistant inspector general of
[89.3s] police where he's developed strategies
[91.5s] for threat mitigation and advised on
[94.4s] security deployments along border
[96.3s] points. He has risen from senior
[98.8s] superintendent of police to commissioner
[100.7s] of police. He has quite an illustrious
[103.6s] career and I am sure you'll be able to
[105.8s] see the bio that will be projected on
[107.6s] our screens. But uh in summary in his
[110.7s] career he's also received se several
[113.6s] prestigious awards including the moran
[116.8s] of the order of the burning spear the
[119.0s] order of the grand warrior of Kenya and
[121.4s] the silver star of Kenya. He is
[124.1s] currently the acting inspector uh
[126.8s] general of police of the national police
[129.0s] service. So I'll just ask him to wave
[131.8s] and say something small.
[134.6s] Thank you. Maybe maybe a correction.
[137.9s] Yes, please. I was appointed I think
[140.2s] it's for the general of police but
[141.5s] currently I'm the deputy inspector
[143.1s] general of Oh police. All right. So
[146.3s] there's a correction where he said he's
[148.1s] currently the deputy general. Right.
[150.6s] Deputy inspector general. Yeah. Oh yeah.
[152.1s] Of the inspector general. So thank you
[153.8s] so much for that correction and we'll
[156.3s] get to learn more about it. In fact, I
[158.2s] would like to know how I'm able to
[159.5s] venture into such a a field. Then next
[164.4s] on um his left, we have Mr. um
[170.1s] Silatto. Um I'm very excited to um sorry
[173.6s] just to have him here. I have very many
[176.0s] questions from my end uh because I tried
[179.3s] to double in entrepreneurship and got
[181.5s] scarred a little bit. So I'm hoping
[183.7s] he'll give me some sort of
[185.7s] encouragement. He has quite a very uh
[189.1s] diverse background. He is an
[191.2s] entrepreneur, a visionary one. He is a
[194.3s] technology strategist and corporate
[196.7s] leader with a proven track record in
[199.4s] business development, IT solutions and
[202.2s] strategic expansion across Africa. I
[204.8s] think you heard from the last uh session
[206.7s] we had about um embracing technology and
[210.2s] I'm seeing from his very uh interesting
[212.9s] bio that he's someone who's done that
[215.0s] already. He serves currently as a CEO
[217.8s] and founder of multiple successful
[220.0s] ventures. So please take note of that.
[222.1s] Prepare your questions uh including
[224.7s] Selda Enterprise Limited, Dalinas
[228.0s] company, Gemnet and DLO and company
[231.6s] advocates. His leadership AC across
[234.3s] these diverse enterprises has positioned
[236.6s] him as a key player in technology, legal
[240.0s] services and corporate innovation.
[243.0s] He behind his corporate ventures because
[245.3s] he's a man of many talents I presume
[247.8s] he's committed to mentorship, leadership
[250.3s] development and creating business
[252.2s] solutions that drive economic growth.
[255.4s] His ability to merge technology with
[257.8s] strategic business execution makes him a
[260.7s] respected thought leader and catalyst
[262.9s] for progress in Africa's entrepreneurial
[265.8s] ecosystem. Please uh you can greet uh
[269.0s] our participants today. Good morning.
[273.4s] Is it morning still afternoon? Sorry.
[276.6s] Ah.
[278.4s] Are we that wellfed that we have
[280.1s] forgotten the time? All right. And then
[283.2s] finally on the extreme left we have FCPA
[288.2s] Rose Osoro. She is a member of the 7th
[292.1s] Day Adventist Church. Married with five
[294.4s] adult children. She has a very a strong
[297.6s] passion for ministry and is a qualified
[300.2s] master guide and chaplain. She served in
[303.0s] very many capacities in the church. Uh
[306.0s] for example, the children's ministry
[307.8s] leader, vocation bible school,
[310.2s] adventurers, chaplency and treasury. On
[313.5s] a professional level, she is an
[316.2s] award-winning governance and public
[318.2s] finance management specialist. So please
[320.7s] take note of that even as you're
[322.6s] preparing your questions for this
[324.2s] session. She serves on the boards of
[326.2s] various blue chip companies and is a
[329.0s] mentor and a coach who desires to serve
[331.6s] the youth. Her life moto is like the
[334.6s] adventurer's pledge because Jesus loves
[337.5s] me I will always do my best. So please
[341.3s] uh you can greet our participants today.
[344.1s] Good
[345.1s] afternoon. I'm glad to be here.
[348.6s] So to start us off and this is mostly
[351.3s] for my sake because I have many many
[353.7s] questions. I just wanted to know Elder
[356.6s] Maseni where did you grow up?
[360.2s] Thank you. Thank you very much.
[363.9s] Uh good afternoon once again. Good
[366.7s] afternoon. Yeah, Gilbert is my name. As
[370.5s] the motor has just said, I was born in a
[373.5s] little village known as Yaloo in Bong
[376.8s] where
[377.6s] Buu uh that's the place I was born and I
[380.7s] grew up in that area in that primary
[384.1s] school when I graduate to joining form
[387.9s] one. Then I went to Nakuru Nakuru Town
[392.0s] High. After that I went for my degree
[397.5s] that is undergraduate at Dan Kimadi
[400.5s] later on currently I'm doing my PhD in
[405.1s] international
[406.4s] relations but before then I was born in
[410.9s] a staunch
[412.4s] Adventist family where I came my
[417.6s] values like honesty, kindness and
[421.8s] teamwork to others. Thank you. All
[424.5s] right. Are you the first born? You You
[426.6s] seem to me like a firstborn. I am not
[428.8s] the firstborn. In fact, I'm the
[430.6s] keyholder. I'm the last born. Oh,
[432.2s] really? Okay. It does not show.
[436.5s] How many siblings? We have eight
[439.6s] siblings. Okay. Four girls and four
[442.6s] boys. And so you're the last. I'm the
[445.0s] last that. All right. Are you dotted on?
[448.0s] Yes. Are you dotted on by your older
[450.0s] siblings? Do they treat you specially?
[453.4s] No, they are elderly. Yeah. Okay. But
[456.4s] then some of them have passed on. All
[458.6s] right. Yeah. Maybe God willing sometimes
[461.0s] we'll meet with them when we reach
[462.3s] there. Okay. All right. Um and Mr. To
[466.4s] where did you grow up? Yeah. So
[468.8s] generally as everyone grew up in the
[470.6s] village I grew up in a village called Mu
[472.9s] Ben. It's in Wasengishu
[475.1s] County. Mu Ben location.
[478.8s] Um I'm a second born of uh four
[482.4s] siblings. I attended a primary school uh
[485.8s] called Toita Primary School. It's in
[488.9s] village as well. then proceeded for my
[491.5s] primary secondary school in Nandi Hills
[494.0s] called Samo High School and then I did
[498.3s] um bachelor of science in engineering
[501.0s] software engineering in Kenyata
[502.8s] University then I later went up to
[505.8s] Belgium for another program and then
[508.6s] back to Kenya I did another masters in
[511.4s] information technology and currently I'm
[513.9s] also still learning I'm uh still doing
[517.0s] uh courses pertaining my career I'm
[520.1s] doing a micro MBA in Strasmo. Okay. As
[523.9s] everyone has said, I'm also I was born
[526.2s] in a an Adventist family. All right.
[529.0s] Right. Okay. Interesting. What I am
[531.2s] picking and I hope we are picking is
[533.3s] that learning is a lifelong lesson for
[536.6s] them even as you're looking at their
[538.6s] careers. Um and over to you um Rose.
[542.3s] Yes. Thank you so much for this
[545.1s] opportunity. My name as you've been told
[547.0s] is Rossoro. I was born in Kissi to an
[550.0s] Adventist home and um I left before I
[554.3s] was 20 years old. Actually, I came to
[556.2s] university in Nairobi. I never went back
[558.6s] cuz I I got married soon after. So
[562.4s] that's where I grew up. My primary
[564.2s] school, my secondary school in Kissi and
[567.2s] then I came to university in Nairobi and
[570.1s] over time I used to say that that is
[572.1s] where I come from. But I'm more of a
[574.2s] Nairobi person now than anywhere else
[576.3s] depending on the years that I've lived.
[578.6s] I it's going to a quarter of them having
[581.0s] lived in the village. So I I don't know
[583.3s] whether I qualify to be a Nairobi person
[585.6s] or I still uh remain my happy place cuz
[589.1s] always where I was born is my happiest
[591.7s] place on earth. I don't know where I
[593.7s] belong to currently that but that is
[595.8s] where I am. I'm a second born in a
[597.8s] family of uh six as you've said. I got
[601.0s] married very early. I got my first child
[602.9s] when I was about 20. Not by default, it
[605.8s] was by design and um here I am several
[611.0s] years later. Thank you. All right. Thank
[613.4s] you so much for that brief introduction.
[616.5s] So just based on I think I've heard Bong
[619.4s] Muen and Kissy I I have not been to
[622.4s] Bong. I feel very sad now that I'm from
[624.8s] Western and have not been there but I
[626.4s] think it's something I need to work on.
[628.6s] So just based on your background, how
[631.4s] would you say that has sort of inspired
[634.1s] you in terms of shaping your upbringing,
[637.0s] your views on work and career?
[640.9s] I think right from the beginning, first
[642.6s] of all, being an Adventist and I've been
[644.7s] a a children ministry
[647.2s] leader, we are lucky to have the
[650.1s] environment that we have. You've got a
[652.1s] learning environment right from the
[653.8s] beginning. If you walk out there, you'll
[655.4s] see the adventurers, the pathfinders,
[658.0s] all of them. They keep learning. And
[659.5s] that is what actually that is a program
[661.8s] that I went through as a young girl
[664.1s] growing up in the village cuz I knew
[665.7s] you've got to go to church, you've got
[667.2s] on Sunday, you need to go back again for
[669.0s] clubs and all that. So that aspect of
[672.1s] getting to know that you need to be
[673.7s] organized, that you need to continue
[676.0s] learning all the time, h actually opened
[679.5s] the the the spirit of hard work within
[681.8s] myself. So I really work hard as a
[684.6s] person and um and I'm not saying that I
[688.1s] work hard uh on opportunities that God
[692.8s] has provided cuz I I recognize at the
[695.9s] end of the day it's God who is who is in
[699.3s] control in almost everything that I do.
[701.8s] So those little traits that this
[704.3s] church the the way we bring up our
[707.6s] children determines who they become.
[709.9s] like to an extent like um when I was in
[713.0s] charge of uh children ministry I knew
[716.0s] all my children will pass exams and no
[719.1s] one failed all of them in Nairobi
[720.9s] Nairobi who are there all of them like
[724.1s] and I'm sure it replicates even in this
[726.3s] church when you read uh those ones who
[728.7s] have done well most of them are from our
[730.4s] church it's because of the background
[731.8s] that we have and that is the background
[733.5s] that sets us as adults that is what has
[736.6s] has given me as an individual a place to
[739.8s] stand that one of hard work being
[742.4s] disciplined and remembering those little
[744.7s] rules. They look like rules and laws. My
[747.4s] best one is that one because Jesus loves
[749.4s] me. I will always and I underline I will
[752.0s] always do my best. Thank you. Thank you
[755.4s] so much. Um I will skip Mr. To and come
[758.3s] to you Elder Mingeli. How has your
[760.6s] upbringing shaped your views on work and
[763.0s] career?
[764.6s] Thank you. Uh it has been so dynamic
[768.3s] because truly speaking at the young age
[771.5s] at my village from Yalooi Bonga reaching
[775.1s] a certain level Zoya comes in Zoya sugar
[778.2s] company
[779.7s] shifts my parents we all move now
[782.3s] looking for other place now to live
[785.8s] because the farm and the land that they
[789.2s] had has now been leased out. We had to
[791.6s] shift to both sides of Transoya.
[794.8s] And on arrival in Transorya, we had to
[798.3s] practice farming.
[800.6s] And both large scale and at one moment
[805.8s] you had to plan very well because
[807.9s] planning is so critical in that you have
[811.3s] to time yourself with the rains. You
[814.1s] have to ensure that you are on top of
[817.0s] things because if you don't plan well
[820.0s] then you'll not harvest after planting
[823.1s] and also we could ensure that that
[827.6s] teamwork and now apart from plan
[831.4s] planting and harvesting so what you look
[835.4s] for the market as well where to sell so
[837.7s] that you get back
[839.5s] something and
[842.0s] also something to eat and something to
[845.2s] survive as business. By so doing it has
[848.6s] really assisted us by ensuring and also
[852.2s] teaming up with others because we had no
[854.2s] machineries all of them that could do
[856.2s] that. So at some moment we could go for
[860.1s] those who have we hire at the same time
[864.2s] after now harvesting we look for the
[867.7s] ones that we'll use for as domestic and
[870.4s] the others that could be used for other
[872.9s] business and all these calls for a
[875.4s] teamwork now coordination and proper
[878.6s] planning with that you cannot be an
[882.5s] independent without interdependence.
[884.6s] Okay. Thank you. All right. So I've had
[886.2s] hard work. I've also heard about
[888.6s] interdependency and teamwork. Um so Mr.
[891.7s] To how did your upbringing shape your
[893.7s] views on career and work? Yeah. So for
[897.4s] for me I think um my parents were very
[900.2s] tough uh growing up and coming from a
[904.2s] village where there is large scale
[907.5s] farming and then used to tell us
[910.6s] everything that I have there's none for
[913.3s] you here. Uh my dad used to work in a
[916.8s] university. So every morning he used to
[919.2s] tell us uh you have to work hard and I
[922.3s] remember during tuition time you will
[924.4s] take us to university pair us with other
[927.5s] you know um children from other faculty
[930.2s] members and all that. That's a time I
[932.8s] started you know getting interest in
[935.8s] education. Personally when you are
[937.8s] growing up in primary and secondary
[939.9s] you're directionless cuz the agenda is
[942.1s] to go to school. It's mandatory. you
[944.2s] just finish and go home. So in the year
[947.0s] 2000, I think that was the year when
[949.0s] there was computer era and I remember um
[953.9s] we used to go to the institutions and
[957.0s] play games with the computers. So the
[959.2s] interest arised from there when I
[961.0s] started now learning more about doing
[964.4s] computers and uh you know um getting
[967.2s] interest about how the computer brain
[969.3s] works and all that later
[972.8s] um but earlier in the back uh my idea
[977.0s] was to be a pilot which I still believe
[979.4s] I will be if not I will own one.
[983.9s] uh so that idea went through I didn't
[986.6s] manage to go to you know pilot school um
[991.4s] so I pursued uh education all my
[994.0s] siblings went through a same but the
[997.2s] agenda of going back to campus
[1000.2s] uh to do engineering software
[1002.1s] engineering was because in the village
[1005.5s] everything was about the computer era
[1008.2s] that moment and it was not about I know
[1011.9s] parents were telling us do engineer ing
[1014.0s] do uh medical, loss, legal and all that.
[1018.4s] But the interest came because everyone
[1020.8s] was about you know computers and I'd
[1023.4s] actually had a interaction with a
[1025.4s] computer playing on a um playing pool
[1029.0s] you know pool table in computers. So
[1032.6s] that time it was not common and I used
[1036.4s] to learn how things can happen in a
[1039.2s] screen rather
[1040.5s] than on a real service where we can
[1043.1s] actually touch. So to date I still
[1047.1s] appreciate my little growing up from my
[1049.4s] village. Um and unfortunately most of my
[1053.7s] area village um chose to be farmers to
[1057.3s] date. They are still farmers big time
[1058.7s] farmers. uh we accounted actually for
[1061.4s] those who did engineering and you know
[1063.6s] computer science like us. So that was
[1066.1s] the path. Okay. Where we was there any
[1068.6s] because I you you talked about 2000 and
[1070.9s] technology. Was there anyone you were
[1072.8s] looking up to aspire or you were just
[1074.9s] trying it out? I was actually trying you
[1077.8s] see again in Adventist we were told
[1080.2s] Jesus is coming you know in the year
[1083.2s] 2000 and and and everything was about
[1085.7s] computers. Okay. All right. The interest
[1088.4s] was actually from this computer whether
[1090.0s] the computer will shut down because
[1091.6s] again everything is going back. Um the
[1095.1s] interest came from there. Okay. All
[1097.0s] right. And to you uh FCPA Rose, how did
[1100.1s] you manage to start in your career? Did
[1103.0s] you have a particular person that
[1104.4s] inspired you or conversation with
[1107.0s] someone?
[1109.7s] Uh many people. Mhm. Especially when you
[1113.0s] have a listening ear. First thing that
[1115.8s] ever ever influenced me during our time
[1119.0s] if you went to campus and became a
[1121.1s] teacher you actually got a job. You were
[1123.8s] employed by TSC immediately after
[1126.4s] campus. And uh having coming from um a
[1131.1s] background where our family actually
[1133.0s] required more money that could have been
[1135.2s] the best thing for me to do go and do
[1137.6s] education. But unfortunately I was not
[1140.4s] selected to go and do education. that
[1142.1s] time when you are selected you actually
[1144.0s] do what you selected for there's not
[1145.8s] there's no room for maneuver you can't
[1147.8s] change you go to university if they tell
[1150.1s] you you do anthropology I've seen one
[1152.3s] talking about anthropology that
[1154.1s] anthropology is the one that you do so I
[1156.4s] find myself in the university of Kenyata
[1158.8s] University doing bachelor of
[1160.8s] arts and we used to call it bachelor of
[1163.4s] anything you know like there was
[1165.0s] bachelor of education bachelor of
[1166.9s] science but this was bachelor of art
[1170.2s] that we could call bachelor of anything
[1173.3s] and I knew that for me to get myself out
[1176.6s] of there, I needed to be kind of
[1181.1s] extraordinary. I didn't fight it back. I
[1183.4s] know my friends who fought back and they
[1185.2s] were moved to the education department
[1187.2s] because it meant they'll get a job
[1188.7s] thereafter. I said I am going to work
[1191.2s] around what God has given me. And that
[1193.3s] is exactly what I did. By the time I
[1195.7s] graduated from campus, I had two
[1197.9s] diplomas already by the side because I
[1200.6s] knew if I go with a bachelor of anything
[1203.1s] to any employer, the employer can't give
[1205.3s] me a job. The employer will only give me
[1207.0s] for the add-ons that I already have. So
[1209.8s] by the time I finished, I had two
[1211.7s] diplomas on personnel management that
[1213.8s] time and I was not ready to go and face
[1216.2s] the market and I knew specifically what
[1218.7s] I wanted to do in campus. If you do very
[1221.7s] well, you are a bright student. the
[1223.2s] lecturers surround themselves around you
[1225.5s] to tell you now we'll give you a
[1227.0s] scholarship you come back and do masters
[1228.8s] I told them I'm not going to do masters
[1230.6s] not now I'm going to do masters but not
[1233.0s] now because I knew if I do masters then
[1235.4s] I'm going to end up being a teacher I
[1237.4s] said I'm going back into industry and I
[1239.4s] must go out there and work in industry
[1241.8s] that's how I ended up now doing CPA CPS
[1245.1s] that's how I entered into that field of
[1247.9s] of finance out of default I did bachelor
[1250.6s] of art sociology and ministry encompass
[1253.7s] but you ask me those things now I don't
[1256.1s] have them I they got lost along the way
[1258.5s] but people tell me they build my finesse
[1261.2s] because I can be able to communicate I
[1263.1s] can be able to look get to to understand
[1265.9s] the history the dynamics of people
[1268.2s] groups of people which most of the
[1270.6s] science people don't have yeah thank you
[1273.5s] can I rightly conclude that while you're
[1276.0s] saying that you did not practice it the
[1278.1s] bachelor of arts it provided you with
[1280.0s] the right foundation to be able to build
[1282.7s] up on other things. Exactly. I don't
[1285.9s] regret the many papers that I did, the
[1288.4s] many learnings that I did. All of a
[1290.3s] sudden, I was required to work extra
[1292.7s] hard to excel. That was the base of
[1295.1s] everything else. Whatever I am today,
[1297.1s] it's because I walked in those cumbers.
[1300.1s] Yeah. Thank you. All right. Thank you.
[1302.2s] And to you, Elder Maseli, I'm actually
[1304.4s] very interested because I don't know
[1306.2s] anyone with a background in yours.
[1308.4s] You're the first person I'm meeting. So
[1310.2s] I would like to know how do what
[1313.2s] inspired you to pursue this career?
[1315.8s] Thank you. Yeah, the journey to becoming
[1319.2s] a police officer was not premeditated.
[1321.4s] Mhm. While I was back in school, I
[1324.5s] thought I could become maybe an engineer
[1327.0s] or a teacher because we really respected
[1328.9s] teachers in our village. Yes.
[1331.3s] But still while I was still a little boy
[1334.5s] looking after the hearts of my
[1336.4s] parents at some point you could see
[1338.7s] people running across the river. Then
[1341.7s] when one reaches you you ask why are you
[1344.2s] running? Then the word is police. Then
[1346.6s] you join the work of running away at the
[1349.0s] top hill. You find that they are running
[1352.4s] after the police because of that police
[1353.9s] brutality. They get hold of you. They
[1356.6s] beat you up. But later on I found myself
[1362.5s] going for a recruitment
[1365.0s] exercise after being laid off as a
[1368.8s] untrained teacher. There's some point
[1370.8s] where the president is excellent the
[1372.4s] late president
[1373.7s] Moy laid off some teachers because of
[1377.4s] the schools not doing well in rift
[1378.9s] valley. I was one of the UT and trained
[1381.4s] teachers by then practicing awaiting to
[1384.5s] join from five and six. But little did I
[1389.6s] know that in that transition I could get
[1394.3s] a job by just going to the field and I
[1397.6s] was a footballer at that young age. That
[1400.5s] propelled me also when I went to the
[1402.2s] field for exercise of selection I
[1404.8s] managed to be in a good number at the
[1407.5s] end of the day. Then I found myself
[1408.8s] having been recruited. Oh okay. And now
[1411.9s] I found myself being a police officer
[1413.8s] after training and we've gone through
[1415.7s] many stages but initially it was not
[1418.4s] premeditated. Okay. You just happened to
[1421.0s] find yourself and you took advantage of
[1422.6s] it and grew. All right. Interesting. Who
[1426.6s] would you say has been the most
[1428.0s] influential person uh that has shaped
[1430.3s] your career? I'll start with you. Sure.
[1433.8s] Uh at the young stage my parents and my
[1437.3s] elder siblings were very influential.
[1440.2s] The time we could put our heads under
[1443.1s] their roof at some point you could hear
[1446.3s] that sound of early morning in the KBC
[1451.1s] radio. Then you could just know no
[1453.8s] sleeping anymore. 2 minutes you are
[1455.9s] woken up you rush to the school. Now
[1459.9s] that was a trend. We had to learn about
[1462.8s] that. But still the that arch of
[1467.7s] teamwork, working together, eating
[1470.0s] together and if
[1472.2s] you are late from coming and joining
[1475.9s] them to eat together, then you could
[1477.8s] find yourself nowhere going to the farm,
[1480.4s] you could call whether it's Sunday, you
[1483.3s] call all of you guys together and you
[1485.9s] have to work because you'll get your
[1487.4s] portion. You have to cultivate that
[1490.9s] area till you finish it and to some
[1494.6s] point you had to make sure you have to
[1498.1s] team up. You have to work hard and
[1499.4s] ensure that. But on workplace
[1502.2s] now the influential Kais are the guys
[1505.8s] who are doing better and the very best
[1508.7s] in the service. Right. Okay. So what
[1512.0s] I've heard also is that there was no
[1513.6s] room for laziness. Sure. In your home
[1516.5s] household. No. survive.
[1519.0s] Okay. Interesting. Uh who would you say
[1522.0s] Mr. To was the most influential person
[1525.4s] um in your shaping your career? Yeah. So
[1529.1s] I I think first and foremost was uh my
[1531.6s] mother. My mother has been a
[1532.8s] businesswoman since
[1535.3s] uh I knew and when I was I joined
[1538.9s] employment. My first employer was
[1540.9s] university.
[1542.6s] uh I met one professor who was actually
[1546.6s] he held up my hand and told me I know
[1549.9s] you've done software engineering in
[1551.9s] campus but where I want to put you is
[1555.4s] not relating to your academic but I
[1557.8s] would want you to do something there so
[1559.8s] he threw up me in the library
[1563.0s] so and I thought probably I will now
[1565.5s] start wiping books and you know that
[1568.6s] perspective of your degree actually what
[1571.9s] came into my mind then was this a brain
[1574.4s] in the drain where everything that I've
[1577.7s] learned is now going to wastage. So when
[1580.7s] I joined um you told me now I needed to
[1583.5s] develop a platform for libraries to
[1586.2s] access and that university had over
[1588.7s] around 15
[1590.4s] branches. So we developed a solution and
[1593.9s] based on that uh the opportunity came uh
[1598.3s] a funer organization that funded the
[1601.0s] project to expand. Mhm. Uh which was
[1604.1s] from Belgium. Then I met my mentor my
[1607.0s] first mentor now who is a Belgian who
[1609.4s] had 12 degrees. Wow. Uh Mr. Eggbad
[1613.0s] Smith. So he pushed me so hard to
[1616.6s] develop a platform that was not
[1618.6s] necessarily for Africa but for them in
[1622.0s] Europe that is Belgian and the
[1625.9s] universities in Belgium. So but when I
[1629.2s] came back home um I was appointed again
[1633.3s] by a consortium of universities to be
[1636.2s] the chair and to lead in terms of
[1638.2s] negotiating for e content Mhm. in the
[1641.0s] region. So we used to meet uh publishers
[1645.1s] in Europe negotiate for content for
[1647.8s] Kenyan market and content in this case
[1650.2s] I'm talking about electronic books and
[1652.4s] e-journals. So that was in 2013
[1655.6s] 2014. Then when I met uh another
[1658.4s] gentleman who is now my current partner
[1661.1s] who was actually a representative also
[1662.7s] from India and we saw a niche and we
[1667.0s] came up now developing a solution that
[1669.3s] was really a painoint to give access to
[1672.3s] resources remotely. So we developed a
[1674.4s] platform. So then he pushed me and told
[1677.0s] me you have to resign from your
[1679.6s] employment. And it was a tough tough
[1682.2s] decision for me to make. But the beauty
[1684.6s] is my wife stand by me and she told me
[1686.6s] yes I will support you. I'll pay the
[1689.0s] bills. Oh wow. And I will as long as you
[1692.3s] try. So I left my employment
[1695.4s] uh without notice. To date I have never
[1698.4s] collected even my
[1700.0s] due but I think I'll go back soon. Uh so
[1703.9s] from then then we started looking at
[1705.8s] business from that direction building
[1708.2s] solution for universities and colleges
[1710.4s] and we didn't knew that it was the right
[1712.7s] solution at that moment. It took like
[1716.4s] um different trajectory and and getting
[1719.8s] more needs in the market as well. So we
[1722.6s] grew up very fast to an extent of
[1724.9s] getting over 500 clients in Africa. So
[1728.0s] that is when I realized oh I'm in
[1729.9s] business. Okay. But previously I was
[1733.4s] just trying like everyone else. Yeah. So
[1737.5s] that has been my genesis. My I think my
[1739.4s] mother was the most crucial when she was
[1741.8s] pushing me for for this and she's been
[1744.9s] telling me try. I know you can. And then
[1747.8s] also my wife and my mentor. All right.
[1750.0s] Interesting. You said something that I
[1751.5s] wanted to just maybe drill down on. And
[1753.8s] you said you circumstances pushed you
[1756.5s] from employment to entrepreneurship.
[1759.4s] Where did you get your first source of
[1761.9s] capital now that you did not keep to be
[1764.2s] honest I never had a capital uh to start
[1766.6s] with I think the social capital is what
[1768.9s] I had. Mhm. Um I I used to
[1773.3s] visit and to ask institutions if the
[1776.7s] solution works then you pay if it
[1779.4s] doesn't work leave it. So that is I I
[1783.6s] never had a a capital to start with.
[1786.5s] Mhm. But people of course was my capital
[1789.4s] investment. Were you working with
[1791.3s] someone in particular to develop the
[1793.0s] solutions? Sorry. Were you working with
[1795.8s] a partner to develop the solutions? My
[1798.5s] partner was pushing me to do it. Oh,
[1800.5s] okay. He was also I was also pushing him
[1802.6s] to do it on this end. What I ask is was
[1805.2s] there an agreement between the two of
[1806.8s] you that you'll perhaps delay in terms
[1808.8s] of getting your income as you push to uh
[1811.5s] explore? No, initially there was no
[1813.7s] agreement. It was just
[1816.1s] mushial angry men in in courts, not
[1819.3s] informal. All right. Okay. Thank you for
[1821.6s] that interesting background. And to you,
[1824.2s] uh, FCPA Rose, what whom would you say
[1827.0s] has been the most influential in your
[1828.9s] career?
[1833.4s] One person, it can be many. My primary
[1837.0s] school teacher
[1839.4s] the one who taught me from class one as
[1842.3s] we never used to go to nursing school
[1843.9s] those days from class one to class 4 by
[1848.9s] the time I was in standard 4 I had under
[1852.6s] his care it's called I even is my friend
[1856.5s] to date I had read every single book
[1860.8s] that was in the Kasm village library
[1863.0s] that was there under his Yeah, I I think
[1866.6s] for and and he actually
[1868.4s] knows that is that is the person who
[1871.5s] influenced who I am today like I can be
[1874.2s] able to
[1875.3s] study. Uh I'm able to remain focused if
[1878.5s] I take a book I read. I love reading a
[1880.6s] lot. All that came at that point that I
[1883.8s] I met the teacher that I met that time.
[1886.2s] Yeah. A class primary school lower
[1888.2s] primary school teacher. Okay. And he
[1890.2s] followed me cuz those days there were
[1891.9s] lower primary school teachers. So it
[1894.6s] took me from class one to class three.
[1896.8s] Ideally he could have remained in lower
[1898.9s] primary. He said no I'm going with you
[1901.3s] to the same. So we went class four now
[1903.8s] being taught by more many other teachers
[1905.8s] four five. I think he left that school
[1908.6s] in class 6 and it has been
[1910.6s] transformational. Right. So interesting
[1913.4s] that you talk about a teacher being
[1915.3s] influential and I think Elder Masingeli
[1917.8s] alluded to it in terms of that's what
[1920.1s] everyone aspired to uh when we were
[1922.4s] growing up just in terms of looking at
[1924.2s] teachers and how influential they were.
[1926.8s] Now if you were to go back imagine you
[1929.3s] have a time machine and you would go
[1931.1s] back to your 18-year-old self just
[1934.3s] before you entering campus or pursuing a
[1936.8s] career. What advice would you give your
[1939.3s] younger self? I'll start with you. Uh it
[1942.2s] is scary
[1944.3s] why how the uncertainity that time but
[1949.6s] I'm doing a budget of anything first of
[1952.6s] all jobs in this country are not coming
[1955.9s] by any
[1957.6s] soon and I'm a mother
[1962.3s] already could I just say that by the
[1964.8s] grace of God can I remain where I
[1972.2s] There's nothing you would tell your
[1973.6s] younger self. It's a journey. It's a
[1976.0s] journey and and it's a journey of
[1978.2s] uncertainity. You actually don't know
[1980.0s] what is going to happen tomorrow. But by
[1984.0s] faith, by remaining focused, by looking
[1987.8s] for those opportunities, not looking for
[1990.1s] grabbing those opportunities cuz
[1992.0s] opportunities are like windows. They go
[1993.8s] like this. If it if you miss it, you
[1997.2s] will have to wait for it to come round
[1998.8s] again. As it does like this, you're able
[2001.4s] to pick those those opportunities as you
[2003.7s] move forward and with the guidance of
[2005.4s] God cuz sometimes you you will be
[2007.4s] picking something you think is an
[2009.1s] opportunity then it turns out to be
[2011.1s] something else. So with the guidance of
[2013.7s] God, I think if 18 years I surely could
[2017.5s] not
[2019.2s] leave the presence of God cuz I know
[2022.1s] what it means. I know what it means.
[2025.4s] So is is that it? I hope I've not scared
[2029.0s] you. The thing is the road ahead is
[2031.7s] pretty well. The road ahead is good.
[2033.9s] It's a journey that we need to walk one
[2036.2s] day at a time. But we need to do that
[2039.1s] with faith,
[2041.2s] understanding, listening all your ears,
[2043.9s] 360 scanning so that you can be able to
[2046.4s] move forward. You blink like this, the
[2048.8s] world will leave you. Thank you. All
[2051.1s] right. Thank you, Mr. To. What would you
[2053.1s] tell your 18year-old self? So if you are
[2056.3s] to take me back to 18 years, I think one
[2058.9s] thing I will do currently I've done many
[2061.4s] mistakes. Yes. In business that if I go
[2065.3s] back I will try to
[2067.2s] streamline. Um to myself I will start
[2071.9s] immediately business after campus. I
[2074.4s] will not want to be employed.
[2077.1s] Um but I don't know from you if you like
[2080.7s] to do business I will always say don't
[2083.8s] try don't put a foot in employment and
[2086.8s] another foot in business you'll not make
[2089.3s] it you just have to choose one if you
[2092.2s] want to do business focus on that and
[2095.2s] start immediately so for myself I will
[2097.4s] immediately go back to roots and start
[2100.9s] proper business as it should be okay so
[2103.3s] you'll go back and be a very confident
[2105.5s] entrepreneur
[2107.1s] Absolutely. Okay. All right. And to you,
[2109.7s] Elder Masangeli, what would you tell
[2111.1s] your 18year-old self? Thank you. For
[2113.8s] sure.
[2116.9s] Sometimes experience is the best teacher
[2119.9s] and with experience you can never hand
[2121.7s] over.
[2123.4s] Lou, if I would touch the young
[2126.0s] Masenueli today is that to embrace self
[2132.9s] uncertainity because there are no
[2136.0s] careers that have linear
[2139.2s] progression. They are always so dynamic
[2143.1s] and also to assure that the faith is not
[2148.3s] just rigid on a blueprint.
[2152.0s] So the 3s you have to accept, you have
[2156.6s] to adjust and you have to advance
[2159.9s] because in this regard in most cases
[2164.8s] humility, humbleness and also being
[2169.7s] flexible. If you would ask yourself
[2172.5s] between water and rock which is
[2177.5s] stronger perfect but another one will
[2180.8s] tell me might be a rock. So in this I
[2183.8s] would like to say that
[2186.5s] patience patience is the strongest
[2189.0s] weapon one might have and
[2191.7s] also with wisdom is the richest
[2198.7s] wealth that we can
[2201.1s] get. Also bearing in mind
[2205.0s] faith should also be there as our
[2208.6s] weapon. Okay. You've you've talked on
[2210.8s] wisdom and I just wanted you to maybe
[2212.6s] give me a bit more color. How do you
[2214.9s] obtain wisdom?
[2217.4s] Wisdom you just get it from
[2220.0s] God by humbling yourself before God
[2224.4s] asking his divine intervention and also
[2228.2s] doing what you are supposed to do. And
[2230.4s] when you do to
[2232.3s] others it turn to you, you don't feel
[2235.1s] offended.
[2236.9s] Right. Okay. Thank you. I think we've
[2239.5s] had quite a very elaborate background of
[2242.3s] our three panelists and I'd like us to
[2244.3s] move to the second session where now we
[2247.2s] align in terms of talking about the
[2249.0s] career and business shift in the 21st
[2251.0s] century faith at work. So this is where
[2253.8s] the rubber meets the road and we get to
[2255.9s] just understand more in terms of what
[2258.0s] you are currently doing. I would like to
[2260.7s] urge you please continue sending your
[2262.4s] questions in mentimeter so that we can
[2264.7s] ask our panelists as we go on. So to you
[2268.2s] um FCPA Rose, what notable changes have
[2271.8s] you witnessed in the in careers and the
[2274.7s] world of work in this
[2278.8s] century? Thank you. Um I mean
[2282.6s] um even having done history and
[2286.3s] sociology, I still consider myself a
[2288.7s] scientist. The what fits me now is math.
[2291.6s] I'm in accounting and uh the
[2295.6s] shifts that I've seen in my lifetime
[2299.3s] probably I never read any of that shift
[2302.5s] in
[2303.6s] history I have seen us moving from
[2307.7s] mathematical tables anybody who knows a
[2310.0s] mathematical table I love table you
[2314.0s] do to
[2318.6s] calculators to computers now softwares
[2322.2s] sophisticated ones that is the shift
[2325.0s] that we see
[2327.4s] uh to a next day now like a class 8 goes
[2329.8s] into an exam room with a calculator I
[2332.1s] don't know whether to go add four and
[2333.7s] five something that we never used to
[2335.9s] hear
[2337.5s] about that shift is evident but
[2340.6s] essentially what has happened what has
[2343.1s] happened is that what you spoke when you
[2345.6s] started there are no jobs for life
[2350.7s] I find it a little intriguing that you
[2353.4s] actually and I see it with my daughters.
[2355.6s] My daughters get their jobs on LinkedIn.
[2357.8s] Is it called
[2359.6s] LinkedIn? That's where they get their
[2361.5s] jobs from. Somebody wakes up in the
[2363.0s] morning and said, "I'm going for work."
[2365.4s] You you try to understand the job they
[2367.6s] are doing. You try you really cannot
[2369.6s] understand. Most of the time they are
[2371.0s] working from home. How does that happen?
[2374.2s] you know as as parents of as parents of
[2377.0s] our older generation those are the
[2378.9s] shifts that we are actually seeing and
[2380.6s] we are seeing them in the workplace the
[2383.0s] ones who are telling you I am going to
[2385.3s] work from home if you insist I come here
[2387.5s] then I'm not coming I won't come cuz
[2390.2s] they they are not as deprived as we were
[2392.6s] before you know some of us if you say
[2394.5s] you're not coming to work where else do
[2395.9s] you go then they probably have a house
[2398.0s] back to their parents home and they fold
[2399.6s] and they go or they've made plans so
[2402.2s] that shift one that I I see mostly that
[2405.0s] one like there's no job for life. I've
[2407.4s] worked in the same organization since I
[2409.0s] was 26 and I'm going to retire there.
[2412.2s] I've had inters here and there going out
[2414.6s] of the organization but I've worked from
[2416.7s] there since age 26 and I'm going to
[2419.7s] retire in that organization. I'm almost
[2421.4s] certain that that is going to happen.
[2423.5s] Another thing that has changed is
[2427.0s] leadership positions are changing.
[2431.8s] There was a time when we grew up in this
[2435.0s] city. You will walk to lift and you will
[2438.0s] see lift say job group N and
[2442.4s] above and if you're not in job group N
[2445.2s] you are not going to enter into that
[2447.4s] lift. Do you ever see that these days it
[2450.6s] has gone. So th those leadership thing
[2454.2s] uh positions that used people used to
[2456.2s] hold if you see your boss from there you
[2458.7s] are going to go like this but now these
[2460.9s] young people that ones who employ these
[2462.9s] days pass by and they say you hey hi
[2464.9s] Rose how are
[2466.0s] you that is something that we never used
[2468.7s] to think of and it's a huge shift that
[2472.7s] leadership positions all of a sudden we
[2474.6s] are all flat we are team members we sit
[2476.6s] here we are team member even even if you
[2479.0s] are the leader of the member in fact the
[2480.7s] leader is even more servered than the
[2483.8s] team members because you need to go down
[2485.5s] for the members to to perform. That is
[2488.2s] what I see in terms of shift. We have no
[2491.7s] lifetime jobs and then this leadership
[2494.2s] thing is actually ending these days. And
[2497.8s] I suspect my daughters could be earning
[2499.6s] more than I do and I've done centuries
[2501.5s] of work, decades of work. But they know
[2505.0s] how to negotiate their their pay, their
[2509.0s] terms as we used to go in and you say is
[2512.1s] there we used to call it career
[2514.4s] progression. What is you fit into a
[2517.4s] program that is already there? So if you
[2519.6s] came in yesterday, there is no way I'm
[2521.8s] going to pass you because I've come in
[2523.4s] today. But these days that shift is
[2525.8s] broken completely. So you come in, you
[2528.2s] negotiate your own terms and you
[2529.9s] continue working with your own terms. I
[2532.2s] work for government and we are seeing we
[2534.2s] are being forced to take care of that
[2536.6s] cuz a child will come in and tell you I
[2538.9s] am going to take this job. Yes, but this
[2540.9s] is the type of this is the salary that I
[2543.0s] need and you critically need that skill.
[2545.6s] You're going to to take that skill and
[2547.7s] and employ them as as you can. So that
[2551.1s] is the shift for me I've seen and it's
[2553.6s] scary. We are leaving it. The idea that
[2556.4s] there's no mudsi these days there's no
[2558.6s] mudosi we are all work we are all
[2560.8s] working you are the co your office is
[2562.8s] there and my job is here and we are all
[2565.0s] work and we are all working that is what
[2567.8s] I see as the greatest shift in terms of
[2570.5s] work okay you've preempted one question
[2572.6s] I wanted to ask you've talked about the
[2574.9s] flat uh or lean structure at the work
[2578.0s] workplace and not having a hierarchy um
[2581.0s] is that something you have readily
[2582.5s] embraced or it has taken time
[2585.9s] We have no option, okay, but to impress
[2588.6s] it, okay? Because it has come
[2591.5s] knocking. If it could have come like 10
[2595.0s] 10 years ago, probably it could have
[2597.3s] been a shock. But now we've seen, you
[2599.3s] know, some of the the people are doing
[2600.6s] it are our children. They're the ones
[2602.0s] who are challenging and we already know
[2603.8s] how they react. So it has come
[2607.8s] in slowly but surely and we know it is a
[2612.3s] total shift. The workplace is changing
[2615.0s] totally completely to something else
[2617.4s] that we we are now into teams. We are
[2620.2s] now into into into the flatter organiz
[2623.9s] they're not lean but flat flatter do
[2626.2s] your job go do your job go give my
[2628.6s] assignment I do if I have finished it by
[2630.4s] 8 that is my problem I go if I decide to
[2633.0s] do it at night while while you are
[2634.6s] sleeping it's my work I'll do it
[2636.2s] wherever time I want to do it and I'll
[2638.2s] deliver the point is have you delivered
[2640.9s] okay all right thank you uh for that so
[2643.5s] I'll shift to you elder maseli just
[2646.2s] building on what she's talked about the
[2648.0s] career shifts I think I've heard techn
[2649.6s] technology there was the gap in terms of
[2651.8s] demand and supply of jobs. She's talked
[2654.2s] about the structure in terms of the
[2655.8s] leadership and you are in a career where
[2658.7s] there's a lot of hierarchy in
[2660.2s] structures. um one maybe the first
[2663.4s] question I'd ask is the change that she
[2666.0s] has mentioned do you see it in your
[2668.0s] career that's the first one and then the
[2670.1s] second one with these shifts that we've
[2672.3s] talked about uh I mean with these
[2675.4s] changes that we've seen what mindset
[2678.4s] shifts should the young people have to
[2680.5s] be able to adapt to the current
[2682.9s] situation at the workplace
[2685.8s] thank
[2686.7s] you the changing professional landscape
[2690.1s] today demands that young people should
[2693.7s] not be rigid to
[2696.7s] one job that they are linear to and to
[2701.9s] be specific is that mental framework is
[2705.1s] critical in this. Okay. What my sister
[2708.5s] has just talked about is very critical
[2711.3s] because it is a progress and a way of
[2716.1s] embracing continuous development
[2720.4s] by moving from stage one like police.
[2724.1s] You could kill uh you are
[2726.4s] recruit, you are a trained junior
[2729.5s] officer, you untrained police officer,
[2732.5s] then you go through the ranks because of
[2737.2s] that embracing of continuous
[2740.0s] learning and with embracing of the
[2742.9s] continuous learning will keep you to the
[2747.1s] to the framework to get to where it is.
[2751.8s] Okay. The other thing that you've asked
[2754.2s] about the structures
[2757.4s] the hierarchal the hierarchal yeah
[2759.5s] structures
[2760.9s] structures fine they are there and with
[2765.2s] police is a service whereby is
[2769.0s] structured in a way yes is yes or no.
[2774.7s] In this regard also we have to apart
[2777.4s] from embracing the continuous learning
[2779.4s] the way she has said is also develop
[2781.7s] that adaptability and good relationship
[2784.0s] with others as well as being in a
[2787.8s] position to ensure that you assist one
[2790.6s] another. also embracing that change of
[2794.3s] mindset. Mindset change in this regard
[2797.8s] is that now that at school you are
[2801.5s] focusing to be a teacher. The way I
[2804.0s] wanted to be a teacher like an engineer
[2806.3s] but later on I got the unexpected
[2808.7s] opportunity that landed my way and took
[2812.0s] it up. So whatever you get make good use
[2815.0s] of it. And also don't just go to school
[2818.2s] and say now I have the papers I can sit
[2821.2s] and wait for the job to get you. So is
[2824.2s] you to get the job or the job is to get
[2826.2s] you. It depends.
[2831.4s] So with the background from where I came
[2835.5s] from, this is a calling whereby you have
[2839.0s] to work
[2840.4s] hard to come out of your way to ensure
[2845.6s] that you do it exemplary to achieve what
[2849.3s] you want to get.
[2852.8s] Do you have anything else to add or
[2855.2s] Yeah, there's Okay. All right. So I
[2857.3s] think I've heard you've talked about the
[2858.7s] mental fortitude,
[2860.7s] adaptability, there's networking and
[2862.7s] there's one you keep saying and I think
[2864.4s] please take note of this. You've talked
[2865.8s] about interdependency and just that
[2868.5s] networking that helps you to be able to
[2871.6s] um adjust to the current environment and
[2875.0s] innovations as well and innovation.
[2877.5s] Okay. Thank you.
[2879.8s] I'll take note of that. And to you Mr.
[2883.1s] uh to what as we talking to uh young
[2886.4s] people, what practical steps can we as
[2889.2s] young people take to build successful
[2891.7s] and sustainable
[2893.5s] businesses or careers?
[2896.6s] Um I think at the market right now we
[2900.2s] have to look at um skills that are
[2903.4s] relevant in the profession.
[2906.0s] I'm saying this because
[2908.8s] um at the institutional level we still
[2912.3s] see institutions teaching students the
[2915.3s] ordinary
[2917.8s] learning. What the needs in the markets
[2920.2s] are completely different. We have new
[2923.0s] technologies in terms of how do we read?
[2925.8s] Um I remember back when I used when I
[2929.0s] bought my first phone and we used to buy
[2932.7s] air time at around 500 shillings.
[2935.7s] Nowadays it's getting to a point where
[2938.0s] air time is not necessary but we are
[2939.7s] buying bundles.
[2942.0s] So if if we do not have policies at the
[2945.6s] national level to help institutions come
[2948.8s] up with the needs um skill sets for the
[2951.8s] current market that there is a problem.
[2955.3s] I feel in the market there is a lot of
[2958.5s] uh changing requirements that we have to
[2961.4s] adapt and for that for us to be at par.
[2964.9s] We have to be continuous learning. Uh we
[2968.7s] have AI in the market. Deepseek is just
[2971.4s] here. Next year there will be another
[2973.6s] one and so many inventions and you know
[2975.9s] technologies that will come aside. So
[2978.7s] but how do we adapt to that market
[2981.2s] sector? As most of them have said
[2984.2s] panelist here we have to be continuous
[2987.0s] uh you have to upskill your skill set in
[2989.9s] the market. Yes, you can have your
[2992.4s] degree. To be honest, everyone now has
[2995.3s] degree. Everyone has masters. Almost
[2997.9s] everyone has is now doing
[3000.0s] PhD. But what are you doing in the
[3003.0s] market field? Are you trying to go and
[3005.7s] solve a particular need in the market
[3008.2s] side or you're just doing your degree
[3011.4s] just because it's a requirement probably
[3013.7s] maybe from your parents and not
[3016.2s] yourself.
[3017.7s] So changing requirements are always in
[3020.3s] the market. Even as for us in the
[3022.6s] market, we are always at par in term in
[3026.0s] in terms of trying to make sure that we
[3028.1s] address the requirements from the users.
[3030.4s] We receive request from clients and
[3034.5s] trying to fit and provide a solution
[3036.7s] that will work for them because unless
[3039.5s] you do that then
[3041.7s] um you will be overtaken by event. As
[3044.7s] you know now we are in the market of Gen
[3046.6s] C. Gen Alva is about to bubble which is
[3051.5s] more critical I think and we have to
[3054.2s] look at what are we bringing them how
[3057.7s] will the market consume these people. So
[3060.7s] I think for now we can actually look at
[3063.8s] market skill sets that are
[3066.0s] relevant as per the requirements in the
[3068.6s] field. Okay. I want to ask a little more
[3071.8s] of a personal question. So I've finished
[3074.0s] campus. I have this idea. I've written a
[3076.9s] business plan. I'm coming to you. I have
[3079.7s] a business plan. I have not tested it.
[3081.9s] How do I move from the business plan to
[3084.5s] make it a tangible business?
[3087.9s] Oh, question to me. Yes, please.
[3091.4s] Yeah. So, first and foremost, uh there
[3093.6s] are relevant courses online there.
[3096.4s] There are courses online that can
[3098.1s] actually, you know, help you start up.
[3102.2s] Um I don't know whether you do Corsera,
[3105.3s] Udemi. Uh these are platforms that have
[3108.9s] the best uh content that each and every
[3113.4s] employee is looking at. I remember there
[3115.7s] is a time I went to Europe the first
[3117.8s] time and I was bragging that I have
[3119.6s] masters and I noticed that my degree was
[3122.6s] just for Kenya. But because I had
[3125.4s] additional professional courses that I
[3127.1s] had done before in the market uh that
[3130.2s] actually helps me to think about it uh
[3132.4s] and and and I will always encourage
[3134.1s] people even for a startup when you want
[3136.5s] to start up something you have to do a
[3139.5s] bit of research you don't just wake up
[3142.3s] and do something otherwise everyone is
[3145.6s] doing it. I remember recently
[3148.6s] um let me not part the institute but I
[3151.8s] got a vice call from one vice chancellor
[3154.2s] and say silas I am tired of hosting my
[3157.1s] infrastructure in the institution please
[3159.6s] come and take
[3160.8s] everything I didn't have where to start
[3164.6s] yes we are technology provider but again
[3167.4s] thinking of hosting an institutional
[3169.3s] data was so big to me so I end up myself
[3173.2s] finding myself in
[3174.7s] river trying to buy
[3177.4s] servers. I bought servers. I prepare
[3181.1s] everything in place and I was ready to
[3184.6s] to host the content. And yes, when I got
[3187.8s] in there, I realized, oh, I can also do
[3190.5s] internet, I can provide internet. The
[3193.0s] need started from there. Got three or
[3195.1s] four institutions asking, can you supply
[3197.5s] us with internet
[3199.5s] uh offices and so forth. So what I
[3202.1s] saying is things changes from what you
[3205.3s] actually have right now. Tomorrow is
[3207.2s] something else. So you have to be open
[3209.5s] and open-minded person and to be able to
[3213.1s] accept what is happening in the in the
[3215.0s] market. Okay. I just please indulge me.
[3218.1s] I have another question because I keep
[3219.7s] getting so my background is in
[3221.1s] investments and one of the questions I
[3223.2s] keep getting every time when I'm um
[3225.4s] advising people who have startups is
[3228.1s] where do I get money from?
[3231.0s] I don't believe that money is everything
[3232.7s] to start up a business to be honest. Um
[3236.0s] if you want to scale yes market is I
[3238.1s] mean capital will be required but just
[3240.8s] if you have an idea there are many
[3243.0s] institutions that provide um
[3246.8s] sponsorship for an idea. I used to work
[3250.1s] at American Corner in uh Mo University
[3252.9s] and I was a program coordinator and we
[3255.7s] used to receive a lot of money for
[3257.8s] incubation for somebody who just come in
[3259.8s] and say I have an idea but I don't know
[3262.0s] what to do and we used to give a lot of
[3263.9s] money not in terms of physical cash but
[3267.2s] in trying to support the program and the
[3269.8s] place is still there in the city center
[3271.8s] I think pasa plaza fifth floor where if
[3274.5s] you have an idea and you do not have
[3277.0s] planned to start you don't have a budget
[3279.2s] You can just walk in there. They will
[3281.5s] give you um platform in terms of
[3285.0s] probably maybe hosting your idea,
[3287.2s] hosting your audience, you know, uh
[3289.4s] facilitating your program and everything
[3291.8s] just to start up. So there are always
[3294.1s] that point but you have to have a good
[3297.4s] proposal that actually attracts funding
[3300.4s] and they always there. There are many
[3302.4s] people outside there I can tell you for
[3304.4s] sure that they do not
[3307.4s] have you know um opportunity to spend
[3310.8s] but they will want to spend in your own
[3313.0s] idea and I've seen many companies uh
[3316.5s] putting up a proposal for the same and
[3319.0s] they have received millions of
[3320.6s] shillings. All right. Okay. Thank you
[3322.7s] for that uh very elaborate answer. Now
[3326.2s] um I think we had Winnie I think that
[3329.6s] was your name Winnie from Lovington um
[3332.6s] where she had asked the previous speaker
[3335.3s] uh just in terms of how she can be a
[3338.4s] mentee. So I'm going to just throw this
[3340.4s] question to all of you in terms of uh
[3343.9s] mentor mentee relation one uh do you
[3348.2s] have a mentor and I'll start with uh
[3350.8s] yourself uh Rose.
[3354.6s] Yes, I
[3356.0s] do. But not one. Many many in different
[3361.2s] fields.
[3362.8s] Did you ask them particularly or did it
[3366.0s] just come out organically? It's more of
[3368.3s] a relationship. Mhm. Uh like uh they
[3372.6s] know when they see you, you're going to
[3374.2s] ask a question. They know when you're
[3377.0s] going close to them, there's something
[3378.7s] that you require. And whenever they see
[3381.0s] something related to what you do, they'd
[3383.0s] reach out. So it's not like we have not
[3385.8s] signed a form that you are my mentee and
[3389.8s] you are my mentor and I'm your mentee.
[3391.8s] It's a kind of a relationship that we
[3394.2s] have and because not everybody has all
[3397.6s] the skills that you require from one
[3399.6s] person. So for me I've got different
[3402.2s] people. I call for different things.
[3405.1s] Like when I'm down and I need somebody
[3407.0s] to lift me up, I know who to call and I
[3409.7s] know how that conversation how how the
[3412.6s] the effect of that person is going to be
[3414.6s] on how I move forward. If it's a
[3416.9s] technical thing, I know who I'm going to
[3418.6s] ask or to consult in terms of technical
[3421.0s] issues. Yeah. So I I don't have one but
[3424.3s] for myself I've got a mentee that we
[3426.7s] have signed. actually have got two that
[3429.0s] we have signed and we keep tracking uh
[3432.0s] because she belongs to they belong to an
[3434.6s] organized uh organization and we they
[3437.3s] they've been brought to us. So we've got
[3439.4s] something that we sign and we track and
[3442.6s] uh and there are millions others who
[3444.9s] because you mentor them because you
[3446.9s] interact you mentor them because they
[3449.3s] are within your vicinity and they reach
[3451.0s] out to you whenever they've got an
[3452.4s] issue. So I can't say that
[3455.4s] uh probably my mentor is God like God is
[3459.4s] the person who stands there permanent
[3461.8s] and these other ones I plug them in
[3463.6s] whenever I require their services. Okay.
[3466.6s] And to you elder me um I can I safely
[3470.4s] assume that you have mentors?
[3473.7s] Sure we have menas. Okay. And in this
[3478.1s] regard to me it just happened
[3481.8s] organically. Mhm. With time along
[3486.0s] working and also getting the shared
[3489.6s] values,
[3491.5s] the working relationship and the
[3495.0s] likes made us just found ourself looking
[3498.4s] for the best guy who has values like me.
[3502.3s] But at the end of the day just occurred
[3504.1s] organically. And also in most cases when
[3506.8s] you get a mentor is a person who will
[3509.7s] transit you to make those shifts the bad
[3513.0s] time shift from your normal to what you
[3516.6s] are supposed to be in futureing your
[3519.7s] your your work. Also maybe just to go
[3522.8s] back a bit is that prioritizing
[3526.4s] prioritizing meaning and purpose of
[3529.4s] life. As our brother here has just said,
[3533.0s] it is important because with the young
[3537.2s] professionals of the 21st
[3539.6s] century, it
[3541.5s] is evident that it
[3545.6s] erodess the boundaries between the
[3549.0s] professional and the personal
[3552.8s] spares. Here is a calling whereby you
[3555.7s] have to be ready for anything, okay? any
[3558.0s] shift as it comes you take it the way it
[3561.0s] comes but it also needs a lot of agility
[3564.6s] a lot of flexibility and a lot of
[3568.3s] adaptability thank you okay and to you
[3571.2s] Mr. I will not ask the question that has
[3574.0s] been asked but maybe phrase it a bit
[3575.8s] differently. When how old were you when
[3578.5s] you had your first mentor?
[3581.4s] Um so my first uh I have three mentors
[3584.8s] to begin with. A professional mentor,
[3587.8s] spiritual mentor and a social mentor.
[3589.7s] Mhm.
[3591.3s] Um in terms of my career, I think my
[3595.0s] mentor has always been there. I
[3598.0s] never um when I intended to move to that
[3603.5s] direction, I went directly to him and
[3606.6s] request that uh should be my mentor and
[3611.1s] he graciously accepted but he has always
[3615.0s] been giving us also very rough time in
[3618.6s] business because he's always telling us
[3620.5s] the reality and the truth about business
[3623.6s] and through that actually it's very
[3625.4s] important that uh he's always there.
[3628.7s] Every steps that we normally make as a
[3631.4s] company, we normally inform him. Mhm.
[3633.1s] And he'll always give us an advice on uh
[3635.7s] what to do. Not that we can't do it,
[3639.0s] but all his advice has always been
[3641.7s] great. Is your mentor let's say on your
[3644.6s] case when they ask you to do something
[3646.3s] then you're having a next meeting and
[3648.0s] they ask for followup.
[3650.3s] He normally follow up and he normally
[3651.8s] comes even to the office at times. Okay.
[3654.6s] Yeah. And you see at times you need also
[3657.0s] to renumerate mentors. Um if you in that
[3662.2s] kind of closeness then and you are doing
[3664.5s] well then it is a good caseia to
[3668.1s] also pay him back. Yeah. Okay. So and in
[3672.8s] terms of spiritual of course
[3674.8s] um they're always there we always work
[3678.0s] towards uh pray I mean together um
[3682.5s] whatever you want to make a step you
[3685.3s] normally request and ask and you'll
[3687.4s] always give us advice on the same but
[3689.8s] what I can actually say in terms of
[3691.4s] mentorship is it is very important
[3693.4s] especially if you are doing business to
[3696.2s] have a mentor because you it's a
[3698.5s] reflection of what you do and because
[3700.8s] you are on this other side is always on
[3702.6s] the other side and he'll always give you
[3704.2s] a true picture of what the market is all
[3707.0s] about. Okay. Yeah. Uh thank you for that
[3710.3s] elaborate answer. Now in your personal
[3714.2s] um I think career when I'm looking at
[3716.7s] your professional life, what specific
[3719.1s] changes have you made to be able to just
[3721.8s] fit in with a changing landscape? I know
[3724.4s] we talked about it general, but I would
[3726.2s] like a bit more color from your end.
[3730.9s] Thank
[3732.1s] you. To
[3734.2s] me, policing work is not really a job.
[3738.9s] It's just a calling. Okay? It's a
[3741.6s] calling whereby you have to serve and
[3746.0s] protect. It's a calling whereby you have
[3748.8s] to make a
[3750.4s] choice. A called choice. A choice
[3754.6s] between two alternatives and the fixed
[3757.8s] so not to quit. A renunciation that one
[3760.8s] must make not once neither twice but you
[3764.2s] have to make it as many times as you are
[3768.5s] still on this job because as we talk
[3773.2s] today of the 21st
[3774.8s] century everybody's racing against time
[3778.2s] and whenever you race against time where
[3781.0s] speed is
[3782.8s] power you have to make sure you do that
[3786.2s] in order to succeed and success here
[3790.1s] knows no limit. You want to succeed
[3792.6s] today, succeed tomorrow, succeed day
[3795.7s] after
[3796.8s] tomorrow. In this regard, all this
[3801.0s] family is the
[3803.1s] pillar
[3804.9s] also moving near to the Lord by ensuring
[3809.2s] God guides you all the way along.
[3814.3s] Initially I could say that
[3817.2s] police are not natural are not human
[3820.1s] beings but I came to realize they our
[3822.7s] brothers they our sisters they our
[3825.0s] friends and just human like any
[3829.6s] other and also when you read of 1
[3833.6s] Corinthian you see it first
[3836.8s] Corinthian 10:30 Mhm.
[3839.9s] We do all for the glory of God.
[3845.2s] Okay. Um thank you for that uh elaborate
[3848.7s] answer. I would move over to you um FCPA
[3852.3s] Rose. What challenges would you say you
[3855.2s] have personally faced in your career and
[3859.0s] how did you overcome them?
[3863.6s] Uh the first challenge probably is being
[3867.9s] a lady working in a man dominated
[3871.1s] field. Most times you find like you're
[3874.2s] the only lady on the table and
[3878.4s] uh it's not an easy thing to
[3882.8s] um first of all they kind of don't see
[3886.1s] that you've come there out of merit.
[3888.9s] It's probably out of uh
[3892.5s] gender
[3894.0s] aspects. So you need to
[3897.8s] work
[3899.5s] more put more effort than I could
[3903.0s] believe if you are um a man on that
[3906.5s] table. So for you to to to stumble your
[3909.5s] authority for you to understand for
[3912.3s] everybody to understand that you
[3913.8s] understand what is being discussed then
[3915.9s] you actually need to work extra hard. So
[3919.3s] and uh we have had
[3921.6s] sessions all over just trying to tell us
[3924.4s] that you need to to be you need to
[3927.7s] understand your subject matter you need
[3929.4s] to read read hard extensively anticipate
[3933.2s] the questions anticipate the issues on
[3935.4s] the table be the person who provide
[3937.5s] solutions so that you can actually gain
[3939.4s] trust from the people that you work with
[3942.7s] so that is how I've been able to manage
[3945.2s] like you work extra hard make sure you
[3947.6s] understand in the subject matter. Get be
[3949.5s] on top of things and and prepare
[3953.6s] extraordinarily and you will actually
[3956.0s] stand out when you are in in in those
[3959.4s] sessions. Uh a friend of mine who is an
[3962.2s] my mentor in the field of uh sitting in
[3965.0s] boards told me that the first time she
[3967.8s] walked into a board meeting, she's much
[3969.6s] older than me. People were asking like
[3972.3s] what is this young girl coming to do
[3974.2s] here? They did not understand what she
[3976.2s] was going to do. So she intentionally
[3979.1s] decided to read the pack the boardbacks
[3982.6s] there almost like a thousand pages. She
[3984.6s] read every single page and when
[3988.1s] questions were being asked in her heart
[3989.8s] she's like which question are you asking
[3991.8s] see that one is in page 200 that was in
[3994.5s] page 400 she understood what she was and
[3997.6s] that gave her confidence to engage
[4001.4s] adequately and for me that is what I
[4003.4s] call out be sure that I know what I want
[4006.5s] to do I know uh I I understand so that I
[4010.8s] can be able to showcase the the the the
[4014.5s] creator that God created because I'm
[4016.2s] God's creator and is the one who's given
[4018.9s] me all those capacity capabilities. So
[4021.0s] when I'm out there, it is workmanship
[4023.5s] that I'm actually displaying and I do
[4025.4s] that with uh a lot of um with no
[4028.9s] apology. I'm a child of God. Yeah. So
[4031.6s] that that that is one of the challenges.
[4033.4s] Another challenge that I have faced is
[4036.2s] that one of being
[4038.2s] in in in a in a predominantly people
[4042.2s] Christian but they are not Adventists.
[4045.5s] They're Christian and they're not
[4046.9s] Adventist. It's the the the the the
[4050.1s] divide between Muslim and Christian is
[4052.0s] almost automatic. But between Christian
[4054.6s] and Adventist there's they first of all
[4057.7s] they stand up they say h you are the
[4060.5s] person who don't do this who don't do
[4062.9s] this and it it actually stands out but
[4065.6s] for me I say I am an Adventist first and
[4068.7s] everything else goes so if there's a
[4070.9s] meeting that is going to be conducted on
[4072.6s] a on a Sabbath they know that I won't
[4075.6s] I'm not going to be there if they know
[4077.7s] they require my services then they will
[4080.1s] need to push it to another time you need
[4082.4s] to be very particular and something else
[4084.5s] that I need to tell every Adventist who
[4086.8s] walks in this city or in this country
[4089.4s] the Adventist who are ahead of us the
[4093.1s] senior adventist starting with the ones
[4094.9s] who the Aras ma who started they created
[4098.3s] a forum that can make us actually
[4101.5s] succeed almost in every field they've
[4104.2s] got imagine if you're talking about
[4107.2s] Ma Maraga for instance you're talking
[4110.3s] about Matiangi you know all those
[4112.5s] They've created space to an extent that
[4115.0s] some of us are even called Matiangi
[4116.6s] wherever we work and we are happy about
[4118.2s] it. The thing is we stand for what we
[4121.9s] are because we are Christians. We are
[4123.8s] seventh day Adventists and there are
[4125.6s] some we put boundaries. There are things
[4128.6s] that we don't do and and and because of
[4131.2s] that we are known for who we are for
[4133.6s] that. And I think it it makes life they
[4137.4s] can they can push you aside when they
[4140.4s] are doing their bad things but whenever
[4142.5s] they work want work to be done they will
[4145.8s] actually call you out and you'll come
[4147.4s] and you'll actually work. So uh for me
[4150.9s] those are the few things that I've I've
[4153.7s] seen challenges in the workplace and uh
[4157.0s] how to we've navigated the same every
[4159.8s] single day but prayer has to be persist
[4162.2s] I work in finance sorry for being too I
[4165.4s] I'm I'm an accountant and if you all
[4167.9s] know accountant in government what do we
[4170.9s] do accountant in government what do we
[4173.3s] do we audit you all know what do we do
[4177.0s] we audit accountant in government what
[4179.0s] do we do we steal now you are being
[4181.8s] you're being gentle to me because I'm
[4183.6s] here you see like people accountants do
[4187.5s] what in government if you're working in
[4189.0s] government what do you do still but here
[4191.6s] I am I've worked in the public sector
[4194.4s] since I was 26 and I have never taken a
[4198.2s] coin that does not belong to me and no
[4201.8s] child of mine has not had school fees or
[4204.4s] has slept angry I stand firm and that is
[4207.0s] what I even teach young accountants. I I
[4209.9s] I I train institute of certified public
[4212.7s] accountants and my topic is known if you
[4215.3s] walk into an integrity professional
[4218.2s] ethics and conduct you'll find my name
[4221.5s] top because me I pronounce it. I say I
[4224.3s] work in government. I am not here to
[4226.0s] steal. I'm here to work for the service
[4228.0s] of God and and humanity. And I'm I'm
[4232.3s] okay. I I I am not any different from my
[4235.7s] friends who I know have stolen but still
[4239.4s] they don't sleep at night because they
[4241.0s] are wondering when who is that knocking
[4243.4s] at at the gates. They they've put
[4245.4s] cameras everywhere to be sure they know
[4247.4s] he's working or they've got money they
[4249.0s] keeping in their houses and they don't
[4250.2s] know where to keep it because the police
[4251.9s] will come any other him he'll come any
[4254.6s] other time and and and pick it up. I
[4258.2s] have a sleepless I have a I I rest sure
[4261.3s] because I have not done anything wrong
[4263.7s] and it's doable. Not that I have not
[4266.5s] seen things being done. I have seen and
[4270.0s] I can count each one of them but I'm not
[4272.6s] in that. And they make sure I am not
[4274.6s] part of that. So we can survive in this
[4278.0s] in this world. Corruption, no
[4279.8s] corruption. We can actually survive as
[4281.8s] 7th day Adventist in the workplace and
[4284.0s] navigate comfortably. Thank you.
[4286.7s] Um I want to just drill down on one of
[4289.2s] some one of the things you've touched on
[4290.7s] on integrity as we are looking to
[4293.2s] finalize. So you've talked about
[4295.2s] integrity. What other tools or skills
[4297.8s] would you advise young professionals to
[4300.6s] use to navigate the
[4303.8s] workplace? First of all, other than the
[4306.6s] virtues of integrity, doing the right
[4309.3s] thing,
[4310.8s] be ensure that your
[4314.0s] employability is
[4316.5s] viable. Your employability is viable.
[4320.1s] And employability, I'm not talking like
[4322.2s] me who wants a salary or it's even like
[4325.0s] him who gets money from inter
[4328.3s] entrepreneurship. It could be
[4329.8s] self-employment. you. So you must be
[4332.5s] able to work around your employability
[4335.0s] and employability is to ensure that
[4337.4s] everything within you is right. Your
[4339.4s] technical capacity is right. Your
[4342.0s] integrity levels are perfect. Everything
[4345.1s] that works around you is okay. And on
[4347.6s] top of that, enjoy what you do. Enjoy
[4351.0s] what you do. Hold it with passion. Cuz
[4353.4s] where else could you be working? What
[4356.2s] else could you be doing? This is what
[4358.1s] God has given you. If if you you you you
[4362.6s] see a job like a small one and then you
[4365.3s] are like no I don't have a job I've got
[4367.6s] whatever you have please enjoy it work
[4371.4s] around enjoy en enjoyability and
[4374.0s] employability like are you a person have
[4376.8s] you ever seen somebody who is not
[4378.2s] unemployed who is
[4380.5s] unemployable have you they walk in our
[4383.8s] mid east somebody you are given you say
[4385.9s] no that one even for free I won't
[4389.4s] Yes. So, make sure that you work on your
[4392.1s] employability, understand the technical.
[4394.6s] If you are in marketing, get to know how
[4396.5s] to smile, get to know how to talk to
[4398.2s] people. If you build your technical
[4400.4s] skills as as a person and then scan the
[4404.4s] environment, get continuous learning
[4406.3s] that we've been told since morning on
[4408.3s] your field. Yeah. Thank all right. Thank
[4410.1s] you for that. So I've had both uh
[4412.2s] focusing on the soft skills as well as
[4414.2s] the technical skills uh to be relevant
[4416.6s] in this navigating um environment. Uh
[4420.4s] Mr. To um if I had to ask you to
[4424.6s] describe what a 21st century
[4427.4s] entrepreneur would look like, what
[4430.0s] adjectives or what words would you use?
[4433.6s] Innovation. Mhm. Um continuous uh
[4438.3s] innovation will be the key because uh
[4441.2s] when you look at the market as of now
[4444.6s] everything is changing um technology is
[4448.0s] changing as well today you know XY
[4452.6s] tomorrow it's something else so but
[4456.0s] allow me to say something about what you
[4458.4s] ask the other panelist yes please about
[4461.2s] the ethical aspect I think that's a very
[4463.4s] big uh challenge in business and um
[4467.9s] there are many challenges as well. Uh I
[4471.4s] remember the first time when I went to
[4473.8s] Nigeria to expand
[4476.7s] uh I'd been invited by over 200
[4478.8s] institutions uh to give the product. But
[4482.6s] when I met one big vice chancellor who
[4486.2s] influenced the rest of
[4488.0s] everyone change everything and he told
[4490.4s] me um how much is your product? So I
[4494.5s] mentioned to him and he said add a zero
[4497.4s] at the end. Oh wow. And then you bring
[4501.3s] me the
[4503.2s] balance and then uh remember now you're
[4506.4s] a businessman you're trying to get the
[4509.2s] market there's opportunity of losing 200
[4512.3s] plus
[4513.6s] institutions and there is this and he
[4516.9s] said I will make the payment immediately
[4519.1s] if you agree to
[4521.5s] that. So that night I remember I had to
[4524.9s] change I called my mentor my mentor was
[4527.6s] very important and he told me don't I
[4532.3s] changed my flight that night and I left
[4534.6s] the country so the next day um they look
[4539.2s] for me but they couldn't see me and this
[4541.7s] was a very big project that we've been
[4544.0s] actually trying to put in place for many
[4546.1s] years and and trying to put everything
[4548.6s] together. So in business there are
[4550.4s] always challenges even locally here. Um
[4553.2s] you give an invoice to
[4556.5s] government. Um they ask what is
[4560.3s] this? Our standard price is always
[4562.8s] constant and they will always delay your
[4565.7s] payment because there's nothing that
[4567.3s] comes out of it. So navigating on those
[4570.0s] issues requires somebody that has very
[4573.6s] firm principle of ethical issues. You
[4578.4s] must know where you are and for honestly
[4581.5s] we've lost a lot of business because of
[4583.4s] that and in standing in our own
[4586.2s] principle we've received much much more
[4589.8s] so you'll never lack actually that's
[4591.9s] what I can say if you stand on the right
[4594.3s] track of ethical um you don't want to be
[4598.2s] in the next office across here all right
[4602.2s] um because everyone has given the
[4603.5s] experience on ethics it it only makes
[4606.2s] sense that I also ask in terms terms of
[4608.4s] what struggles you've encountered at the
[4610.2s] workplace that challenge your faith.
[4612.8s] Thank you. With police work, you'll have
[4616.3s] a lot because you'll walk down the
[4619.4s] street, you get a police, a traffic
[4621.2s] police officer raising their hand, at
[4623.4s] the back of your mind, you think, I have
[4625.4s] to part with
[4627.2s] something. One thing is that various
[4630.4s] challenges could test one's faith,
[4634.4s] especially corruption. And
[4637.9s] unfortunately
[4639.9s] the community or the people have
[4644.0s] normalized corruption by baptizing them
[4647.0s] with very many names.
[4649.2s] Chaiiko Hiduko cost of doing business.
[4653.4s] Cost of doing business. Cost of doing
[4655.4s] business. Yeah. They have praised them
[4657.6s] with very many names and bribery and
[4662.2s] unethical behavior is a way they have
[4666.1s] normalized to overcoming
[4670.3s] problems. Getting things done the way
[4673.5s] they want even if it is an awkward way.
[4676.3s] They want to stop at nothing but ensure
[4680.5s] that they get their demand done and
[4683.9s] ethical
[4685.4s] behavior corruption will not take you
[4689.3s] anywhere.
[4691.1s] currently at the National Police
[4693.1s] Service, Inspector General of Police,
[4695.5s] the Deputy Inspector General of Kenya
[4697.1s] Police, the administration
[4699.5s] DIG and other officers. We have
[4704.4s] impressed a
[4706.8s] service delivery centered police to the
[4712.3s] people. We are striving to ensure that
[4715.8s] we get the best service to the police.
[4718.6s] where you walk into a police station you
[4721.1s] don't say that you know Meneli or you
[4723.4s] know Mr. Ka or Mr.
[4725.8s] you are served like any other Kenyans
[4730.0s] without without you parting with
[4732.2s] anything or without you being known by
[4734.5s] so and so also going ahead we are
[4738.0s] digitalizing the police work whereby it
[4741.4s] will make that meeting point because
[4745.3s] this corruption happens especially when
[4748.0s] you meet with your client this
[4752.2s] rec soon And more than very soon we'll
[4757.0s] be digitalizing the OP. And when the OB
[4760.2s] is digitalized, you will report a case
[4763.1s] at comfort of your seat at your house.
[4766.5s] Just say today so and so I'm so and so
[4769.8s] I'm reporting from this area that so and
[4772.6s] so has wronged me or has robbed me at
[4774.8s] this and this. Then the response will be
[4777.7s] there. them because we want to nurture a
[4780.4s] crime free society, a crime free society
[4783.2s] because we are the
[4786.7s] servants. We are just servants to serve
[4789.7s] and protect you by ensuring that you are
[4794.5s] served to the your level best. You are
[4797.8s] don't have anything or any problem in
[4801.1s] execution of your work at whatever cost
[4804.7s] and also we are trying as much as
[4807.6s] possible to ensure corruption free
[4811.0s] society because has been normalized by
[4814.2s] the society with the baptizing it with
[4815.9s] many names and to some point forcing
[4818.6s] these police officers to take something
[4821.0s] and the law is very clear the given the
[4823.0s] taker should take it to court and here
[4826.9s] now puts us in an awkward situation
[4828.5s] whereby you have to uphold your
[4830.9s] integrity, honesty and the justice
[4834.0s] because it will make you free. Thank
[4836.2s] you. All right. Thank you. Um we will
[4838.6s] turn quickly to the question and answer
[4840.5s] session and I see there are some
[4842.5s] relevant questions. So I'll start with
[4843.8s] you Elder Masenelli. Uh there's one that
[4846.3s] asks what is your biggest failure and
[4849.1s] given an opportunity to revert back to
[4851.1s] that point in time what could you have
[4853.8s] done differently?
[4856.6s] The biggest failure. Yes. Your biggest
[4859.0s] failure. Wow.
[4863.0s] This job is so dynamic
[4865.8s] because one thing for sure is that it's
[4868.8s] so
[4870.2s] challenging for me.
[4874.0s] My response in this question is
[4879.9s] that in life all things are not just you
[4885.8s] can do the way you want. At some point
[4889.5s] I've been a commander special forces for
[4892.3s] a long
[4893.5s] time
[4895.2s] and it calls for very good planning. You
[4899.6s] plan very well to execute your work very
[4902.6s] well.
[4904.2s] Some point when you lose one of your
[4908.8s] colleague you don't feel okay at any
[4911.4s] moment when you remember very well when
[4915.4s] the sun
[4918.2s] sets that one you have to count that you
[4921.5s] have one lesser day to live but at the
[4925.7s] sunset you have a lot of
[4928.4s] expectations as it at at the sunrise you
[4931.7s] have a lot of expectation But at the
[4933.4s] sunset you have a lot of experiences.
[4935.8s] But
[4936.6s] also at the sunrise you want to have
[4940.8s] some
[4943.3s] objectives done. You wake up in the
[4946.6s] morning. You want to go for a mission.
[4948.8s] You sit together. You draw say this the
[4953.0s] plan. This is the adversary. We are
[4955.0s] going for this war. Okay. You pray. You
[4957.7s] are 12. You go into the war soon. You
[4961.0s] come back. You are less by three, you
[4963.3s] are less by
[4965.2s] two. Then to you as a commander, you'll
[4969.2s] not fail it well because you think this
[4972.7s] guy should have
[4974.2s] survived. Mighty be he is one of your
[4978.0s] finest in that field. But some point you
[4984.0s] feel that you might have been the person
[4987.8s] who made this person to lose their life.
[4990.7s] But at the end of the day, we leave
[4993.2s] knowing that at one point we'll have to
[4996.0s] die. And for your information, the
[4998.9s] officers don't fear
[5000.5s] dying because of the problems that
[5003.6s] they've passed through. They've known
[5005.7s] that they will have to die at one point.
[5008.6s] And dying is normal. What motivates the
[5012.9s] officers is that the injured one that
[5017.4s] one who has in a problem how he's taken
[5020.2s] care of the
[5022.0s] evacuation they take care of that one
[5025.4s] the family that has remained behind but
[5028.0s] one thing most of the police officers
[5030.6s] are Christians nowadays because they
[5032.2s] know they pray God and they also believe
[5035.8s] and trust that one day they'll have to
[5037.4s] die because they know dust plus living P
[5040.6s] is equals to living soul minus living P
[5043.2s] is equals to dust and that's normal but
[5045.9s] they strive so hard that one day one
[5048.0s] time when Jesus comes back they're going
[5050.2s] to be among those ones who will meet
[5051.8s] him. Thank you so much. I know that you
[5055.6s] have some questions you've been uh
[5057.4s] wanting to ask. So I'll give this uh
[5061.5s] opport directly to the panelist. If you
[5064.4s] can have a roaming mic
[5066.7s] please. Some questions have been posted
[5069.0s] on Mentimeter, but I'll just give you a
[5070.7s] chance if you posted there to ask.
[5080.8s] Hello everyone. Hello. My name is Daisy
[5086.5s] Kwamoka. I am a nurse. I work at Madari
[5090.3s] Hospital. I have a question
[5094.0s] to Elder
[5096.0s] Maseni concerning mental health. What
[5100.0s] strategies have you
[5102.0s] put at at
[5104.4s] at your place of work on police
[5109.3s] concerning their mental
[5111.3s] health especially on high stress
[5115.8s] scenarios?
[5120.0s] Okay, we'll take uh two more questions
[5122.2s] and then please let us know whom you'd
[5124.0s] like uh to answer the question. Good
[5128.1s] afternoon. My name is Isaac. I'm
[5131.1s] addressing my first question to Elder
[5133.2s] Maseni. I'm afraid we cannot hear you so
[5136.0s] you may have to uh speak clearly. I'm
[5138.6s] addressing my first question to Elder
[5140.3s] Maseli and ask what should you do when
[5143.5s] an order conflicts with what you believe
[5145.7s] in is the right thing to do? What what
[5149.4s] would you do when I think an order or
[5151.1s] instruction from your superior conflicts
[5153.4s] with your belief?
[5155.6s] And then the other question is to Sil.
[5157.8s] What would you advise someone who
[5160.2s] already has a business and is employed?
[5163.0s] Should they quit uh the employment and
[5165.7s] focus on the business?
[5168.2s] So the question is to you. Uh someone is
[5170.9s] an entrepreneur and is also employed. So
[5173.3s] should they quit and focus on business
[5175.2s] or should they stay employed? Um we'll
[5178.2s] take one last
[5181.2s] question. My name is Bernard. I have uh
[5185.2s] three questions for all the speakers. So
[5189.0s] first to Elder Maseni.
[5192.0s] Uh we have situation may maybe you have
[5195.3s] uh been stopped by an officer and then
[5197.8s] you are can I just request if you can
[5200.4s] move uh so that we can hear you clearly
[5203.1s] we're struggling to hear you.
[5206.1s] Okay. Uh my question to Elder Meneli
[5210.5s] uh okay when uh maybe you have been
[5215.0s] you're driving and then an officer finds
[5218.2s] you in a mistake or maybe Yeah. and
[5222.0s] then asks you
[5224.6s] for some money or something, what's the
[5227.4s] right thing to do? Of course, sometimes
[5229.0s] some people will say that that's not
[5230.5s] your problem. Uh you have been asked.
[5234.0s] So, okay. And then uh a second questions
[5238.3s] to Sila. Uh how would you
[5243.2s] uh give a value proposition to a client
[5246.9s] or how do you ensure value proposition
[5250.7s] when you are pitching to a client about
[5253.6s] your services? And then lastly to to
[5257.2s] Rose
[5258.8s] uh same issue of integrity.
[5262.6s] uh when uh a client uh something was
[5265.8s] mentioned that uh you you give your your
[5268.8s] quote for your product or your services
[5271.7s] then a client ask for something on top.
[5274.9s] Uh same thing somebody will say that
[5277.8s] it's not your it's not your problem is
[5280.6s] the one the person who's asking is the
[5282.8s] one who is infringing the the company
[5286.2s] for you you're just giving the services.
[5288.6s] So if you are asked uh uh the issue is
[5293.4s] not in you. So what will you say about
[5295.1s] that?
[5297.6s] We'll take a pose there. I think are you
[5299.8s] ready to start? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Please
[5301.5s] go ahead. Thank you. Thank you very
[5303.8s] much. Maybe I'll start with the question
[5305.9s] that the sister asked from
[5308.5s] Madare. One is that at a workplace we
[5312.1s] have the
[5312.8s] [Music]
[5315.2s] structural faculties that deal with
[5321.0s] different areas. One, we have the
[5324.4s] medical team and we have the counselors
[5329.6s] that take care of our officers on mental
[5333.4s] wellness that might have been from the
[5336.4s] war area or so on. and also it keeps on
[5340.9s] monitoring. We have
[5343.2s] the access to all hospitals across the
[5347.1s] country to pay attention to when there
[5350.8s] is a problem of health or any case of
[5354.2s] that. But just in short, we have our
[5357.0s] teams of counselors who are trained
[5359.2s] police officers and also civilians that
[5361.8s] we team up with to ensure constantly we
[5365.4s] look at the welfare of the police
[5367.7s] officers working within and without our
[5371.0s] borders to ensure their well-being and
[5374.6s] also to cancel those officers who might
[5377.6s] have have that trouble of maybe getting
[5382.1s] out of that
[5384.5s] area they have come from or other
[5387.3s] activities like the Shakahola issue. We
[5390.0s] have the counselors because of seeing
[5391.5s] that body day in day out it puts you
[5394.2s] also in a different scenario. The most
[5397.2s] invited case in this republic are police
[5399.8s] officers because they enforce law and
[5403.3s] whenever you enforce law the more the
[5405.8s] law the more the breakers and whenever
[5408.2s] it's broken you automatically invite a
[5411.0s] police officer. police officer comes in
[5413.3s] at whatever scenario. So it depends with
[5417.4s] the strength and that level of that has
[5422.4s] aggravated of that harm also on but
[5425.9s] doing it day in day out they need to
[5428.6s] have counselors who we have the
[5430.9s] professional counselors within the
[5433.0s] police
[5434.5s] service. Conflict of
[5437.3s] interest. Conflict of interest. When you
[5440.4s] get orders, we are in a country that is
[5443.2s] ruled by the democracy and rule of law.
[5447.2s] As a Christian and as a police officer,
[5450.2s] you do what you are supposed to do as
[5452.6s] per the
[5454.2s] law. And lastly, when you are driving
[5457.4s] along the highway and you're stopped by
[5460.4s] a police officer who happens to be might
[5462.6s] be a traffic officer and says he wants
[5464.5s] money from you, then also ask him money
[5466.8s] for what?
[5469.6s] Don't give and he'll take you
[5472.9s] nowhere. Thank you very much. Or could
[5475.2s] we be assuming that he actually
[5476.8s] committed a traffic offense
[5479.4s] and if you've committed a traffic
[5481.7s] offense just accept you call the process
[5485.9s] as I had just said initially that the
[5489.1s] richest
[5490.4s] wealth in this world is wisdom as the
[5494.6s] strongest weapon is patience. But also
[5499.1s] remember
[5502.2s] security is your faith.
[5505.3s] So if you have committed an offense,
[5507.3s] just follow through the process and
[5509.1s] assist this officer by paying maybe the
[5511.5s] penalty because soon we'll also be
[5513.6s] introducing instant fines because I know
[5515.7s] most of the things people fear going to
[5517.2s] the police but soon later the instant
[5521.2s] fines will be on so that you commit a
[5523.4s] traffic offense you pay on the spot you
[5526.1s] continue with your job. You commit an
[5528.4s] offense, the camera catch you, you get a
[5530.9s] notification, you don't say, it will
[5533.4s] follow you after 3 days. You say, "Hey
[5535.1s] guy, you committed this offense on such
[5537.7s] and such a date on this street and you
[5540.0s] did not comply. Can you come and do it?
[5542.5s] You don't do it. You'll be arrested. You
[5544.1s] be taken to court of law.
[5548.2s] Thank you so much. I will move to uh Mr.
[5550.7s] To. There was a question I think two
[5552.4s] questions there." is I didn't get the
[5555.6s] names but uh I will try. I think the
[5557.8s] first question was about you are
[5560.2s] currently working and you want to do
[5562.2s] business as well. So I will say that um
[5566.8s] the reason why you are you you want to
[5569.4s] try business is because you are
[5572.2s] not probably getting enough from your
[5574.9s] employment in terms of
[5576.5s] revenue. So you want you're looking at
[5579.0s] supplementing your salary.
[5581.4s] Now I will say in business if you want
[5584.5s] to
[5585.3s] do proper business then there's always
[5589.8s] like I will put it as
[5591.6s] um binary it's zero or one it's either
[5595.3s] you are in business or you're in
[5596.9s] employment but for a startup who will
[5599.9s] want to roll out to business probably
[5602.6s] definitely you have to start with
[5605.1s] employment but to to your mind shifting
[5608.2s] towards entrepreneurship I'll always say
[5611.0s] that because there is this conception
[5613.4s] that in your own business you will be
[5616.2s] waking up the time that you will want um
[5618.9s] you know many other sorts. Mind you this
[5621.6s] other side is the vice versa. You'll
[5623.8s] know you'll don't have a sleep. You wake
[5626.0s] up very early. You don't know you'll get
[5628.1s] the salaries for the next month and and
[5630.6s] everything is actually on your mind. So
[5632.5s] you'll actually be carrying more
[5633.8s] problems than you are when you're
[5636.5s] employment. Um so shifting is good. It's
[5640.2s] better to start slow but with a mind of
[5642.6s] moving directly towards that. But again,
[5644.4s] you have to have a strategy. If you
[5647.1s] really want to do business, what do you
[5648.6s] want to achieve? Do you really want to
[5650.8s] are you in business because you are
[5652.8s] looking for supplement salary or you
[5656.6s] want to sort a problem or a niche. So
[5660.2s] those two things you have to define. If
[5662.2s] it's about money then I will say stay in
[5665.4s] employment. But if you want to solve a
[5667.8s] problem then the best place is to to do
[5671.2s] entrepreneurship to start a business.
[5673.4s] The second question was about um value
[5676.2s] proposition. I think we most
[5679.4s] um in the market we always feel that the
[5683.9s] client or the user understands your
[5688.0s] product. In most cases, you have to do
[5692.2s] an additional work ahead to try and
[5694.4s] understand what is the need in the
[5696.8s] market. What is the need in the market
[5699.6s] versus what are the competitors
[5702.0s] providing in the market and what are you
[5704.6s] coming in to provide the difference?
[5707.7s] Because you're not the first one.
[5708.9s] Everyone is doing the same. If it's
[5711.2s] about internet service, there are many
[5713.6s] internet service providers. what
[5716.5s] unique selling proposition will you put
[5719.4s] up in place? What are you providing
[5721.2s] directly to the client at the end of it
[5724.2s] all? That way then you will be able to
[5727.4s] provide um a product and then again when
[5729.9s] you are pitching a product of course
[5733.2s] that you have to put a call
[5736.7s] um for the sale you have to understand
[5739.8s] um what are the benefits of your product
[5742.6s] as opposed to the
[5744.8s] uh competitors actually what
[5746.3s] differentiate your product from the
[5747.8s] existing product that's what I'm trying
[5749.7s] to say so unless you identify that then
[5752.3s] your product will be as same as the rest
[5754.1s] of uh competitors in the market and
[5755.8s] you'll not be solving anything. Thanks.
[5758.4s] Thank you for that on the project
[5759.8s] product differentiation and and over to
[5762.2s] you. I think the question was on
[5763.3s] integrity, right? There was a question
[5766.4s] for UFC.
[5768.5s] It was on product and I think he has
[5770.3s] answered it. Okay. Yes. Is there was
[5775.2s] a
[5776.9s] Yes. Um Joseph, if you may please help
[5779.6s] him with the mic.
[5788.1s] Yes, I asked about when uh uh you are
[5792.6s] you are quoting maybe uh uh you're
[5797.0s] quoting a service or a product and then
[5799.4s] you are asked to put something on top so
[5802.2s] that you'll be fac facilitated. Now
[5804.9s] somebody will say that that's not your
[5807.0s] problem. you you just bring a service
[5808.7s] and then the other person is the one
[5810.4s] who's uh squeezing his organization or
[5814.2s] something.
[5815.6s] So what's your take on that
[5821.6s] tricky
[5822.9s] question you have asked the one who does
[5825.0s] the quotation cuz I
[5828.3s] don't and and and for finance people by
[5831.6s] the time we receive we actually interact
[5834.2s] with the documents most of the things
[5836.8s] have already been done procurement has
[5838.5s] been done everything we just actually
[5840.9s] pay our our our work is to pay so the
[5844.6s] other story of uh top up in terms of
[5847.6s] procurement happens elsewhere. So but uh
[5851.6s] if you want me to talk generally in
[5854.0s] terms of government
[5856.4s] uh cuz uh those happens and it it also
[5859.3s] takes two to tango there is the one who
[5861.9s] is willing to add the zero who doesn't
[5864.2s] want to take the fright out of the
[5865.8s] country and is willing to add that zero
[5868.3s] into the business and there's also the
[5870.4s] one who is out to do business but what
[5873.1s] we need to understand is that integrity
[5875.2s] center is across the board. When you do
[5877.6s] that, you are actually a candidate. You
[5880.4s] are just lucky. If you are not caught,
[5881.9s] then you are not a candidate. But if you
[5883.4s] are caught by those uh stories, then you
[5886.8s] are a a visitor of the building opposite
[5889.8s] our church here. So it it's corruption.
[5893.0s] It's a criminal offense. It's not
[5894.8s] something that you can defend. Yeah.
[5898.4s] Um thank you so much for that answer. I
[5900.6s] think there's one one last question and
[5902.3s] then we'll look to wrap up. Please.
[5908.4s] I'm Joseph and my question is you say do
[5911.2s] we like what we do? I'm pretty sure
[5913.8s] there are many of us whose jobs are not
[5916.1s] likable like they have every reason not
[5918.4s] to be liked. Do we go for therapy? Do we
[5921.4s] go for how do we get to like these
[5923.4s] things? The other question is um on
[5927.3s] faith at work. How is it to be
[5930.3s] religious? It is to all the panelists.
[5933.5s] Can you overdo religion or to what
[5935.8s] extent are you safely religious in your
[5939.8s] workplace or Yeah. And the last one is
[5943.3s] on a conspiracy to Elder Maseneri. Is it
[5946.5s] true that the officers have a target of
[5948.6s] taking the money upstairs? I've grown up
[5952.1s] knowing that. Thank you.
[5956.3s] Right. Please answer the question. I
[5958.0s] think about liking jobs. He he asked a
[5961.0s] question. I think he you had talked
[5963.2s] about you enjoying your job. So his
[5966.1s] question is what happens in the event
[5967.9s] that you're in a job that you do not
[5970.0s] like? How do you handle that? And what
[5972.5s] tools do you
[5973.9s] use? Why are you taking it in the first
[5976.9s] place? You're also taking it because of
[5979.5s] money. And also as you're taking it,
[5982.8s] remember that God is in control.
[5988.2s] some of the jobs that if you listen to
[5990.6s] even uh Arasa's manure this morning he
[5994.5s] said he was posted as an economist he
[5997.4s] didn't want it isn't it then he was
[5999.5s] taken to another place he didn't like it
[6002.2s] as such then he saw an opportunity then
[6005.0s] he went in it could be a path that God
[6007.6s] is actually defining for yourself it's
[6010.1s] only that you are denying and if you
[6011.9s] denying you are going to be in Babylon
[6013.6s] way longer than you could have accepted
[6016.4s] and moved on and looked for ways of
[6019.3s] improving yourself. So if you are in any
[6021.7s] job for money, get to understand how do
[6024.2s] you navigate out of it to be where you
[6027.5s] want to be. You are not there by
[6029.9s] accident. That one I know and I can
[6031.8s] underline it. You're not in that job by
[6034.1s] accident. What is it that God wants you
[6036.8s] to learn out of that job? Get to
[6039.3s] understand. First of all, don't blankly
[6043.1s] say I don't like this job. I don't like
[6045.4s] this job. And then you are waking up
[6047.1s] every morning I don't like it. Then all
[6049.6s] those windows of opportunities they will
[6051.2s] be opening and you'll never see them. If
[6053.5s] you are there recognize the hand of God
[6056.6s] because how many of you have gotten when
[6059.0s] you're looking for a job you don't get
[6060.4s] and when you're about to get a job you
[6061.8s] get like three opportunities at the same
[6063.5s] time. Mhm. That is how it happens and
[6066.2s] then you choose one. So this one that
[6068.3s] you have chosen like it love it to the
[6071.5s] extent that you are moving to the ne
[6073.6s] next one. You actually have no option if
[6076.2s] you are there because if you are not
[6077.8s] then the disservice is not to the
[6080.1s] employer but to yourself as an
[6082.0s] individual do your best that's what I
[6084.4s] say do your this journey is not
[6086.3s] straightforward it's a
[6088.2s] road so just follow the road as it goes
[6091.6s] have enjoy it as you go along the way
[6094.9s] that that's what I could advise okay
[6097.0s] thank you there was a second question
[6098.4s] I'd like it to be directed to Mr. And
[6100.3s] then Elder Masel will take the last one.
[6102.4s] You act you asked about religiosity or
[6105.1s] being over religious at the workplace or
[6108.0s] even um as an entpreneur. So maybe you
[6110.8s] can tackle that one. How do you handle
[6113.0s] it?
[6114.6s] Okay, I can go first. Okay. So I think
[6116.8s] our religion is known globally and there
[6119.6s] are norms that we are known for. There
[6121.5s] are things that we are known we cannot
[6123.0s] do. They even know that we are not
[6125.8s] drinking tea. You know I mean those
[6128.2s] things that has happened. I mean um in
[6131.0s] business I have actually received
[6133.1s] business because of my religion to one
[6136.0s] there's one customer who said uh I
[6138.5s] remember we were in conference in
[6140.8s] Lusaka and I got uh one of the
[6144.0s] organizers of the conference I didn't
[6146.1s] know that he was the chair of an
[6148.7s] institute he said because of sellers who
[6151.0s] is not around today and he mentioned
[6153.0s] that he's going to church let's consider
[6155.4s] him for a privilege and I got 35 five
[6159.0s] institutions in Zambia. I mean it's just
[6162.2s] because of decl I mean um proclaiming
[6165.6s] that yes this is your faith there's
[6168.8s] nothing else you can do but most
[6170.7s] importantly uh to your side what are you
[6174.2s] doing in your religion to be known
[6177.4s] outside there are you just here just to
[6180.0s] be known like you're an Adventist are
[6182.1s] you impacting knowledge to others are
[6184.4s] you making a change to someone else who
[6187.7s] probably not an Adventist or even who is
[6190.2s] an Adventist out there. So those are the
[6193.2s] things that from your side you have to
[6195.6s] critically analyze and make a judgment.
[6199.4s] I think that's Thank you. I think then
[6201.0s] there was one final question directed to
[6203.0s] Elder Masingi.
[6207.0s] Thank you. Yes. I hope if I remember the
[6209.8s] question is if it is true that the money
[6212.5s] that are being collected on the road are
[6215.2s] trajected upward.
[6217.8s] Was it so? Yes, I think so.
[6221.0s] Okay, one thing and a
[6228.6s] fact but it is by their own desire.
[6232.6s] That's the reason
[6234.0s] why many occasions you've had they have
[6238.1s] been arrested, they have been arraigned
[6240.3s] in court, most of them have been sacked
[6243.4s] because of that bad behavior.
[6249.3s] break
[6250.7s] because I'm at the top. I'm among the
[6253.5s] guys on the top and I don't see them.
[6258.1s] The fact is
[6259.4s] that do not
[6263.8s] give. And nobody will do
[6266.6s] anything just will take its way
[6269.6s] forward. And as I just
[6274.0s] said, be patient.
[6278.3s] Patience is the strongest weapon that
[6281.2s] you can ever
[6282.7s] have. The unlucky thing in Kenya, we are
[6288.9s] late. Whenever you get to a stage, these
[6292.3s] people are going to Nairobi, they are
[6294.0s] going to Mombasa. You rather enter the
[6296.6s] vehicle that is headed to Mombasa. But
[6298.6s] in real sense, it is a disguise is going
[6301.8s] to elate because you are late. You stand
[6305.5s] beside the vehicle till it is full. You
[6308.9s] want to enter when it is already full.
[6311.0s] But you are the first person. Who else
[6313.1s] will come to fill that
[6314.8s] vehicle if you cannot be among the first
[6318.2s] ones? So be patience and patience makes
[6323.1s] kings out of
[6324.9s] slaves. That is a fact because desires
[6330.2s] also make slaves out of kings.
[6335.1s] I want to urge the young generation to
[6338.2s] be very confident, to have patience and
[6342.2s] also to have wisdom
[6344.8s] because wisdom is one rich wealth that
[6348.8s] one will never have.
[6351.8s] Can I assume that's your parting short
[6354.1s] or do you still have more? No, it's yet
[6356.6s] to come. Okay. I would like Yes. Now I
[6358.7s] would like to give you a minute for your
[6360.2s] parting shot. Thank you. Thank you.
[6363.9s] and thank you for the opportunity as
[6365.3s] well. All right. You're welcome. I want
[6366.7s] to thank the young young generation the
[6371.6s] the professionals that we have
[6376.1s] because this time around the world
[6380.2s] nations and states do not only depend on
[6385.4s] their strength but also in the strength
[6391.5s] of prosperity of their people. So the
[6399.1s] innovations, the work you are doing, the
[6402.6s] skills you've
[6403.8s] gotten, they are all meant to empower
[6407.2s] you for a better future because you are
[6410.0s] the future. I have maybe one or two
[6413.0s] three things I leave with
[6415.6s] you. Take this journey of career as a
[6421.2s] calling. Take it as a calling. Whether
[6424.7s] it is technological, whether it's
[6427.2s] educational, whether it is health,
[6431.2s] but take it to be a secret place of God.
[6436.7s] You know, whatever you do, embrace
[6439.3s] God. Start a day, start study with God,
[6442.7s] finish with God at all times. There is
[6446.9s] nothing beautiful as assisting one
[6449.5s] another, being
[6453.2s] kind. I asked a question to the moderate
[6455.9s] and she answered perfectly when I asked
[6458.1s] her about who which is stronger
[6462.2s] water or the rock the cliff. Then she
[6465.9s] answered me is water. And truly
[6467.9s] speaking, water is stronger.
[6471.3s] Because that hardness, that rigidity
[6474.9s] does not make the
[6476.8s] rock stronger. Instead, it makes it
[6481.0s] weaker. But with the flexibility, the
[6483.8s] softness of water, it can traverse and
[6486.5s] call all over everywhere.
[6490.4s] I would say that as our young
[6493.7s] professionals, you are just preparing
[6496.6s] for shaping the world and the world
[6501.0s] depends on you. But as you do that, be
[6505.5s] kind, be humble and assist one another
[6509.0s] as you grow up. Thank you so much for
[6511.9s] that uh very uh words of wisdom that we
[6515.2s] will take with us. Uh to Mr. or what
[6518.0s] would your passing short look like?
[6521.1s] Yeah, I think uh as Elder Mangalia said
[6525.8s] um we are in the world of changing
[6528.6s] dynamics. Uh every time things change
[6532.3s] and it's erupt. I will always say for
[6535.8s] young professionals
[6537.9s] um be equipped with the market skills so
[6541.5s] that when the time comes we are the only
[6544.7s] one with the skills in the market.
[6547.3s] Unless we do that then we'll resolve
[6549.9s] back to our continuous problems and
[6552.6s] we'll always keeping complaints and
[6555.0s] saying government aunakasi killer left
[6558.3s] right center business is there outside
[6561.0s] there opportunities are there if I am to
[6565.0s] go back 10 years ago I will have not
[6567.8s] been
[6569.4s] um what I am as of now I will be
[6573.8s] somebody different continuously probably
[6577.5s] maybe a lot of mask. There are things
[6580.9s] that are changing in the market honestly
[6582.9s] that requires adaptability. It requires
[6586.1s] new innovation. It requires honest and
[6589.4s] open mind uh open mindset to take up the
[6592.6s] challenges. We should not be complaining
[6594.7s] as
[6595.6s] youth about opportunities that are not
[6598.2s] there in the market. They are always
[6600.2s] there. If you choose to be in
[6603.7s] employment, do it with all your heart.
[6606.5s] put all your efforts and you'll be
[6608.5s] rewarded in employment. And if you chose
[6610.9s] to be in
[6612.0s] business, put up um strategies, start
[6616.7s] early and you'll be, you know, rewarded
[6620.0s] accordingly. Thank you for that. All
[6621.8s] right. Thank you so much for that. And
[6623.5s] to you FCPOS.
[6625.6s] Thank you. Mine my parting short comes
[6628.2s] from the book of 1 Timothy
[6630.9s] 4:12 that says, "Let no one despise your
[6634.2s] youth." and that includes yourself.
[6637.0s] Please don't despise your youth.
[6641.6s] Instead, live as an example for your
[6644.4s] community of
[6645.7s] believers through the word. Some say
[6649.0s] through speech what comes out of your
[6651.6s] mouth through conduct or spirit how you
[6654.9s] hold yourself guarding yourself through
[6657.8s] the the guardils that have been provided
[6660.3s] by Christ as a Christian life by love
[6663.9s] and charity love is love you can't love
[6668.3s] yourself love is outward looking you
[6670.8s] need to love other people the way you
[6673.5s] are linking and connecting with the
[6675.3s] community have faith and when you're
[6677.8s] talking about faith. Know that fear and
[6680.7s] faith don't walk together. They cannot
[6683.6s] be in the same room. They are mutually
[6686.8s] exclusive. Where there's fear, then
[6689.4s] there's no faith. Where there's faith,
[6691.6s] then there's no fear. And lastly, you
[6694.3s] live by purity by ensuring that you
[6697.6s] abstain and run away. And I want to
[6700.2s] underline the word run away from all
[6702.9s] appearances of evil. We are human
[6706.0s] beings. We cannot be anywhere near the
[6708.6s] devil's level. So if you see a devil,
[6711.5s] please do what? Run. Run. Don't stand.
[6715.0s] Don't engage. Run from all that as an
[6718.5s] appearance of evil. And for sure God
[6722.1s] will bless you all your days of your
[6725.0s] life. Thank you. Thank you so much for
[6727.4s] that parting shot. Um I'm going to
[6729.4s] borrow my parting short from Elder
[6731.6s] Masenelli. And uh it says as we depart I
[6735.2s] challenge you dare to be both competent
[6738.7s] and courageous. The world needs
[6741.2s] professionals who do not just climb
[6743.3s] ladders but build bridges. Bridges of
[6746.7s] hope, equity and grace. May God bless
[6750.1s] you all.