Title: Blueprint for a Movement || Pr. Godswill T.K Mensah
Video ID: kFk3ph8Fnx8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kFk3ph8Fnx8
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Good evening. How are you doing? Some of you appeared distressed. Let me say it one more time. How are you doing? Great. For those of you watching us online, we welcome you to day number two of our week-long project here at New Life in Nairobi. But as I always do, it was Jesus himself who said, "If you continue in my words, then you are my disciples indeed and you shall know the truth and the truth shall set you free. If the Son set you free, you will be free indeed." Can someone smile and say an amen out there? Amen. This is a weak amen. It lacks ugali and chapati. Can somebody say an amen out there? I will take this for now. I make to you four promises. Promise number one is the Bible is going to be the bedrock of our study. And the reason is the Bible means what it says and says just what it means. Promise number two is you are going to be enlightened irrespective of who you are. Promise number three is you are going to be challenged to make the most important decision of your life. And promise number four, your life and mine will never be the same. Our subject for this hour is titled Blueprint for a movement. Subheading, Heaven's Vision for Campus Mission. Blueprint for a movement. Subheading, Heaven's Vision for Campus Mission. It's instructive to know that the brother theme we are using for this week-long project is called, charged, commissioned. All past tense, called past tense, charged past tense and commissioned past tense. Now the scripture text on which we build this week-long project is Acts 1 verse8. But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. So we broke this text down in three areas. When we say called or called the text means you shall be witnesses to me. God has called every individual, every person and in our context, every campus to be a place of witnessing and every student and every lecturer and every person associated on campus. God says I have called you to be witnesses to me. Then the second part of the theme says charged. In that we say you shall receive power. God has charged us through the power or the anointing of the Holy Spirit to do mission. This generation is not waiting for more information. What they are in search of is a desperate need for transformation. So we are charged with power to be able to influence the campus and we are going to look throughout the week how do we do so and the third part of the theme is called charged and commissioned. The Bible says you are called to be witnesses to the end of the earth. We are commissioned to the very end of the earth. In the book of Matthew it says to all nations. It include the nation of university campuses, the nations of public secondary schools, you name them in context. So when we say called, charge and commission, it's not a slogan, it's a divine attempt to do, to say, and to dispatch the gospel in a very meaningful way. So throughout the week we will be playing around this fears. The first three days is dealing with the concept of called that's what we are focusing on. So for this evening we will deal with blueprint for movement or for a movement heaven's vision for campus mission. This is not your typical revival. It is a hybrid of a seminar, a solutionbased brainstorming moment and then there is a revival component. So you are going to see a lot of things. It's a buffet of things pulled together. So just brace up. If you are in Nairobi and you are in the comfort of your home, you'll be missing something. So I urge you to be part in person. And for those of you watching from West Africa to Southern Africa, Central Africa and around the globe, we welcome you to day number two. Yesterday, we gave what we call the framework for a week-l long program titled the forgotten battlefield. Why campus ministries holds the future for the church. That has not been exhausted. But I'm going to break the yesterday's 85% of the unexhausted content. I will break it down throughout the week and I will lace it with other presentations. For tonight, I have two objectives or two goals. Before we go further, let's bow our heads. Let's pray. Father in heaven, this evening is setting the tone and the foundation for what ought to be the onslaught that must be happening on campus. Give us a message for the hour, not just for the church in Kenya, across Africa, the world church. May we catch a glimpse of your vision for what you are intending to do in this last days. Our prayer we have asked in Jesus's name. Amen. The first objective for today is to expose and replace the programdriven culture of campus ministry with heaven's vision for raising spiritled movement. Let me say that one more time. This evening, my assignment is to expose and replace the programdriven culture of campus ministry with heaven's vision for raising spiritled movement. My second objective is to equip student and I dare say those related to student ministry to see that their degrees are divine assignment and their campuses as mission field. This is the two objective. But it's instructive to ask when we say a blueprint, what do we mean? In fact, if you were not in a large auditorium, I would have walked to you with a microphone and asked what? Because without understanding the key defining words or blocks of the topic, we will not understand the message. The topic is blueprint for a movement. So the question is we need to know what is a blueprint. We need to know what characterize a movement. So a blueprint is a detailed underline that precise plan or design used to build, create or execute something. In fact, a blueprint in architecture is the master drawing that guides the construction of a building. A blueprint. So in context we are going to see the detailed precise plan or design dispatched by God for us to build for us to create for us to execute a spiritbased onslaught on campuses blueprint. Now having known what the blueprint is as a detailed precise a blueprint is not a sketch. Many of the things running around in the name of campus ministry, they are sketches. In case you may not know, all my life at I've ministered on campus. I have ministered technically for the past 20 years of my life on campus specifically. I used to serve first when I completed my theological program in case maybe a credential like the apostle Paul would say I I I serve as the assistant chaplain in the university. Immediately I graduated from school the theological seminary. Then when I was sent to the district, I served as the campus pastor for three universities or higher institutions. Then I was appointed as the campus ministry director for my union. Literally taking charge of what campus ministry creating a blueprint, a vision. So I speak from a place not just of passion, from a place of technical knowledge and from a place of of of competence if you permit. So in case some of my statement come across a little cocky, a little a little loud, please allow me. I I am speaking from a place not of ignorance. If that is clear, say an amen. Amen. That's a weak amen. Amen. This Kenyan people they want to kill me. I repeat many of the things masquerading on campus today they are not blueprint they are sketches. Now there is a difference or there is a difference between ministry and the movement. We don't want to convert the campuses to be another ministry. We want to raise a movement. The church in this last days can ill afford to have a student, our young people and university lecturers involved in campus ministries from a place of ministry. So we say that blueprint for a movement and so I want to define what do I mean by a movement. A movement in excent is a collective surge of people. A group of people united by a shared vision driven by purpose and sustained by conviction. mobilizing action that challenges norms that reshape cultures and create lasting social, political or generational change. A movement. So watch the key words. The key words in a movement is vision is vision centered. Movement is peoplepowered. Movement is actionoriented. Movement is transformational in outlook. Let me say it slowly. A movement is vision centered. A movement is peoplepowered. A movement is actionoriented. And a movement is transformational in essence relevant and out to look. If I'm speaking from a spiritual perspective, I will say a movement is God initiated, spiritdriven, vision anchored, awakening that mobilizes ordinary people to pursue an extraordinary assignment with urgency, with sacrifice and an unshakable purpose until cultural, spiritual, generational transformation occurs. Yes. Movement. So we are not in the business of raising another campus church. Please get it very clear to the student leaders here to the pastors, the directors, the union leaders, the conference official. This must form a template. When we are appointing people to do campus ministry, they need to be people with the ferveny, with the power, with the caliber, with the competence to drive a movement, not another church on campus. What is happening is we have a campusflavored local church. No campus ministry can ill afford to be ministry oriented. It must be movement based in case you forget again. It must be vision centered. It must be people powered. It must be actionoriented. It must be transformational in outlook. So when we say blueprint for a movement, heaven's vision for campus, we are not just putting grammar together. It's deliberate. In case you forget, a blueprint also tells you what must be built, how it must be built, when it must be built, and why it must be built. So when you pull together a blueprint and a movement that is that is a dynamite and this is what it ought to be in this last days. Yesterday I gave you the stressful announcement that our church is an endangered species. What you may not know it's not just our church. Christianity is now an endangered species. The Harvard Ox the Oxford University's religious department did a research every year 15 million people are added to Christianity. By the close of the year only 3.8 million remains after COVID. Are you aware that 60% of our church members did not show up in church last year in 2023? 60% according to the general conference they did not come to church. So Christianity be it orthodox, charismatic, pentecostal, they are there is an onslaught. Many people are becoming non-Christians on all sides. So there is a problem. So we cannot go to university the jungles of higher learning and then we are doing more of the same. In any case, anybody who will be coming here to sing this week, you better rehearse your song well because we can't ill afford to have another group of generation of Christians who sings like they are sleeping. Your songs must be intentional. Everything must be clean. I am not speaking to those of you who s today, but you bear me out. If you are not ready to sing properly, you let's play some song. We are not ready for any zombie music in this place. Campus ministry is not a ministry. It's a movement. And I'm coming to give seven reason why a movement is essential. Seven reasons. You better take the note down. Reason number one why a movement is essential. Movement they birth legacy not just activity. In other words, programs aspire. Movement echo throughout generations. So we don't need a ministry to student. We need a movement of student. Why? Whenever you want to leave a legacy, it is on the back of movement. And movement is not just activity. I gave you the four areas of its focus. Movement rate disciples who multiply long after the original leaders are gone. So the Bible put it this way in 2 Timothy chapter 2:2. And the things which you have heard from me among many witnesses. Commit these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. I repeat, why do we need a movement on the campus not a ministry to student? Movement birth legacy not just activity. Reason number two why movement is critical is movements they mobilize many people or the many not just the gifted few movements don't rely on platforms they empower people movement in ence in a movement everyone is a carrier not a consumer acts 8:4 says they that were scattered went everywhere preaching the were in the book of act. The gospel explosion we saw was not a ministry explosion. It was a movement explosion. Why? Movement de mobilize the many, not just the gifted. The reason why our students are slobbish, they are careless, they are reckless and they are literally tired and leaving the church. We have made a ministry out of them and not a movement out of them. We are focusing on the gifted few and we don't know how to galvanize an army to do an onslaught on the centers of learning. Why must we be interested in movement as its benefit? Is movement the challenge systems and shift cultures? Why must the campuses become a movement of students? Movements challenge systems and shift cultures. Movement are the disruptive group or agency by nature. They reform, they confront and they transform. If you want to change a culture, don't build a ministry, build what we call war, a movement. Why? Movement challenge systems and they shift cultures. The slobish nature we see today, the inability to evangelize the world we see today will not be changed by our lame dark ministry model. It must be based on movement. And one characteristic of a movement is it keeps moving. Our church used to be called a movement but now we have settled. We got built hospitals, schools, church buildings, institution. So there is no movement anymore. No wonder the Bible described the church in the last days is a loudian church. A church arrogant, a church self-conceited, a blind church, a clueless church. Why? It has been converted from a movement. We now have professional pastors, professional administrators, professional this, professional that, professional that. movement. They challenge systems and they shift cultures. Why must the universities become a place of movement? You see, a true movement exposes compromise and it death revival. Romans 12:2 says, "And do not be conformed to this world." That is a movement. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. movement they exposes compromises. So normally established organizations don't like movement and they don't like people who want to push for a movement. Why? They challenge systems and they shift the cultures. Reason number four why our campuses must be a movement is movement outlives moments. Event inspire temporarily movements they transform permanently. events whenever there are events you'll be you'll be you'll be challenged everybody is on air it's temporarily if we do not build the movement what we want to do this week we just don't want listen I I prefer we have 30 people 100 people 200 people that will serve as the nuclos of a new emerging movement of campus work in East Africa somebody should say an amen out there why movement meant they outlive moments. You see what begins as fire in one heart becomes reformation in a generation. How movement. The fifth reason why temples cannot be a ministry. It must be a movement. If you study from act chapter 2 to act chapter 28, movements are God's pattern for advancing his kingdom. Movements. Every major spiritual shift in scripture was movement based not meeting based immediately is predictable. Immediately is routine. Immediately it's more of the same. Immediately we are going along by getting along. Know that it's no more a movement. At best it's now a monument. We need to let the campuses become a movement. Why? From Exodus to the book of art. God moves through movement and not monuments. Check it out. The children of Israel, they were always moving, always moving from Gan till they reach Kaa. Movement, movement, movement, movement, movement. If the church wants to see the prophecy made in Joel chapter 2:28 and in those days I'll pour my spirit on all flesh and your young ones will prophesy. If you want to see that the church must be inclined to galvanizing the student base from ministry to movement. Ministry is more of pastors will will counel the student, pastors are in charge. No ministry students are at the forefront. Is student initiated is student led and is student executed. Students are not participant. They are the active originators of ideas and they are in the forefront and when they make mistakes they get better and a new generation will emerge. We need a movement in the last days. Why must our campuses be a movement? movement turns spectators into soldiers. If you want to see you you see the youth in the church here at New Life, you want to see your young people be it the very group that are living in droves age 18 to 35. If we want to make them become soldiers, we want to convert them from being spectators. our youth ministry, our campus ministry, our our how do we call it adventure group. It must move from ministry toward movement. Why? Movement demands participation not observation. Movement demands commitment not mere participation. So it moves or it challenges observation. Stop observing, participate. It won't stop there. Movement will pick you from stop participating. be committed. So, and I'm going to share with you stories, real life mission stories of how movements were birthed and image. Ladies and gentlemen, a movement breaks spiritual passivity by calling every believer into divine assignment for the equipping of the saints. Paul says for the work of ministry for the edifying of the body of Christ. The seventh reason why it cannot be mere ministry to student but it must be a movement not to student of student. It's not ministry to student. It is movement not movement to student but a movement of student. The reason is movement restore purpose to ordinary places. Dorms, rooms becomes upper rooms. Lecture halls become mission grounds. Movement redefine territory. Wherever the people of God move, meaning returns. So when there is a movement on University of Kenyata, University of Nairobi, whichever university you may be, University of Johannesburg, University of Ghana, University of Calaba, you name it. Whenever a movement emerge and it is flavored with God's people, it brings meaning. The true reason why university education was established will be restored. How? Movement. this week. Look, it's not a ceremon. It's a sermon. It's not a conference. It's a construction site. That's why I told you it's not your typical revival. So, let me summarize it. One, movement birth legacy, not just activity. Movement mobilize the many, not just the gifted few. Movement challenge systems and shift cultures. Movement outlives moment. Movement are God's pattern for advancing his kingdom. Movement turns spectators into soldiers. Movement restore purpose to ordinary people. This is the way I put it and I wish they could project it for me. A movement is what happens when vision finds a voice, convision finds a community, and obedience finds momentum. Let me say it one more time. A movement is what happens when vision finds a voice, conviction finds a community, and obedience finds momentum, then you know a movement has arrived. Somebody say movement. Come on, talk to me. Somebody say movement. It's a weak one. Are you sick? Have you not eaten? Somebody say movement. Yes. Those of you watching online, just type hashtag movement. I'm talking about blueprint to a movement. What are the key elements of a movement? Quickly, what's the time? When am I too close? All right. Hear me. Whenever you want to know, is this a ministry or is it a movement? How do you know? Number one, it begins with a burden, not an agenda. Movement don't begin with agenda. You know, people do things so that they will at you know, I was in your country last year when the jenzes were having their demonstration and there was a swelling ground. You know, now I'm reading people are saying some people they were sellout, they had agenda, they wanted to, you know, all kind of stuff. I have been following it very deeply and I see some individuals being po are being held at some young people. Listen, whenever it is a movement, there is a burden. There is no hidden agenda. Mm-m. A true movement is birthed in holy discontent. Not from a strategic plan or a calendar event. No, no, no. That is not a movement. No, that that's not a movement. Movement is not an agenda setting. No, no, no, no, no. So the first characteristic is there a deep burden? A deep burden, authentic, real, it's not, it's not hypocritical. If yes, then it has it has the first characteristics of a movement. So on the campus, have we laid the burden on the heart of the student? Can our young people see the reason why we are saying we are this, we must do this, it must be that, it must be that. What is the goal? Is there a burden? Is there a burden in the heart of the pastors? Is there a burden in the heart of church leaders? It's it's it's possible even at the general conference level, we may bring out a department called PCM. But chances may be that there is not a deep burden. I'm saying chances may be so if we want to build a movement, we need to first ask the question, is there a burden? A true movement is birthed in holy discontent not from a strategic plan or from event calendar. I wish I had time I will have broken down what is a burden. Second thing you can see whenever there is a a a a a movement is it be birth conviction not just emotion. No a movement is not just emotion flavor. There is not just a burden. There is a conviction. Movement are not built on hype but they are built on deep rooted unshakable belief. Emotion fades with time but convictions anchors people in stop. No matter what is said, no matter what is done, it is a conviction. My belief in campus ministries is not a title. I resigned from church work but it is based on conviction. I understand by the grace of God that it is what holds the key to the church we envision. Anytime you want to birth a movement you need to ask a question. Have we laid a conviction on the heart of the people? Those who are emerging with it those who want to bring it forth. Do you have not just a burden? Do you have a conviction? Conviction make people act even when they are afraid. They will act even when they are tired. They will act even when it will make them unpopular. That is a conviction. Movement don't survive on inspiration. They thrive on internal fire. Psychologists call it there must be an intrinsic motivational factor, not an extrinsic motiv. No, no, no, no, no. There is fire in your belly. Movement thrives on that not on inspiration. No. And a lot of the conviction might lead to perspiration. You will work out movement. When you want to see a movement, it's burden flavored. It's conviction uh center. And the third thing is it demands obedience, not just enthusiasm. No way. Many times what we are asking our young people to do and some of the students what is being done is it's just a lot of rah a lot of excitement. No way. It's not about youthful exuberant. It's about obedience. Fire is not enough to faithfully follow through what burden, what conviction God has laid on us. That is it. What we need in this last days, we need a generation of pastors, elders, churches that will not just speak about campus ministry with a burden, that will not just be convicted about campus ministry with a burden. They must be willing to obey. It demands obedience. If you want to build a movement, there must be obedience. So to the students watching, to the directors watching, whoever we may be, wherever we may be, whoever we are, we need to ask a question. Do I have a burden? Do I have a conviction? Am I willing to obey? And that takes me to the fourth point. Whenever you see a movement, what do you see? It multiplies people, not just events. Events attract crowds. Movement activate careers. Event will attract crowd. But what a movement does is it activates something within the people that they carry the burden. They carry the conviction. They carry the obedience. That is what we call the commencement or the birth of a movement. Lastly, movement continues without titles or stages, but the fire is eternal. Movements don't need official positions. They need burning hearts. So, you may not be the campus ministries director, but because it is a move of God that is shaping movement, you don't care. It's not about your role. It's about the goal. That is a movement. I don't care if I am not at the center stage. I am not in the m the limelight. I don't care. All I care about is let the work be done. So it's not about my role. It's about the goal. That is the flavor of a movement. In ence, a real movement doesn't begin with a microphone. It begins with the burden, burns with conviction, walks with obedience, multiplies disciples, and doesn't stop until God says it's done. That is a movement. And this is where we need to bring our children, our young people, the university students hearing me, you are student leader. It's not just a matter of you are the president of Kosa. Is that it? Is it Kosa? Come again. Kokasa. No. A real movement. It doesn't begin with a microphone. 1 2 3. No, it begins with a burden. It burns with conviction. It works with obedience. It multiplies disciples. And it doesn't stop until God says it is done. That is what we call a movement. If I had gotten time and we were in a group, I will have ask you every group you go 10 minutes state five major movements you have witnessed in your lifetime since you became a 7th day Adventist. Have you seen the emergence of a movement? If no, something is wrong. I can remind you that the early church movement in the first century, Jesus's disciples were likely under 30. Many possibly were told by some rabbis that they were teenagers and few professionals among them. They spread the gospel across continent in one generation. That was a movement I call them the early church movement. The key actors youth led, youth initiated. It was started in an upper room but it overtook the Roman Empire led by the Holy Spirit inciting a movement of youth in in the first century. It is a movement. I recall the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century. That was a movement. Luther was 33 years old when he nailed his 95 thesis at the University of Wittenberg. 33 years. The impact is sparked a theological, cultural and educational revolution across the world. That was a movement. and the key youth insight, youth or young university students like Philillip and others drove the wave of reform across Europe. That was a movement I I can remind Ghana's independence in 1957 when Kwamian Kruma led a pan-African flavored movement to say enough of the of of of of the suppression of the black race and Africa must be independent. And when he declared with a group of his people that from now on there is a new Africa in the world and he says Ghana's independent is meaningless unless it leads to the total liberation of the African continent. That was a movement. A movement that brought a cyclical impact. Unruma's bold panaffrican vision brought effect. It brought independence to Kenya, to Nigeria, to Congo, to South Africa. That was a movement. If you think about a movement, I can talk about the American civil rights movement in the 1950s to the 1960s. Young people led it. What our young people's what movement are they forming today? Who then they play drafts? Then they they check Tik Tok. Sometimes stupid content are be created. Just check popularity. No burden, no conviction, nothing. Young people, listen. In the 1950s and the 1960, student led sitins, freedom rights and protest across America, overturned segregation and the laws and shaped the justice system in America. How a movement emerged. It had a burden. It had a conviction. It had a certain level of sacrifice and obedience. Look, Martin Luther King was 26 when he led the Montgomery bus boycott. 26. The student nonviolent committee. They call it the SNC was youthled movement. I have seen movement. The Adventist Millerite movement in the 1830s and the 1840s. That was a movement. Young people like Elen Gin Y received vision at 18 17 years after that. In fact, if you are singing him 441 in our HIM book, it's written by what is his name? Smith's brother. I saw one weary sudden turn with and Smith with eager press on. He was 15 years. Check the lyrics of him. 441 SDH. A movement emerged. The Adventist Milliarite movement. That was a movement. It was what built the 7th Day Adventist Church. It was a movement. Youth led, youth initiated. There were some old people guiding them. But that was a movement. I can talk about the Auza street revival from 1906 to 1909 with it misguided nature as theologically we can expound but young African-American men and women led prayerdriven gatherings you can say it is misguided whatever but the birth of the Pentecostal charismatic movement was led by young people youthled movements it was not powered by the pastors It was powered by young students, young seekers, young professionals hungry for the Holy Spirit. What do we see today? Normal church service. Saturday, we gather here again in our 5,000. It's normal. No power, no Holy Spirit, no anointing, no move, nothing. And it's cyclical. We repeat it every Saturday. No wonder people are tired and they are checking out. If our church will make an impact, we need to rethink and strategize. How do we build and galvanize a movement? Do you recall the Arab Spring in 2010 to 2022? Young social media activists sparked political revolution across the Middle East and North Africa. And the result, you know, they overthrew regimes and redefined the relationship between youth, state and freedom. Youth led 2010 to 2012. One smartphone, one tweet, one protest led by a generation disillusion, but they were determined. And our young people are seated in church. And sometimes we think they are too young, they can't do anything. Hear me loud and clear. Ellen White was 17 years old. Uri Smith was 23 years. He became the editor of the Review and Herald. What is somebody talking about? Listen, sometimes I'm tempted to make some pronouncement. How can 80year-old men and women say a church 70% less than 45 years, they cannot lead themselves? Only the old must lead them. It doesn't make sense. Do you know of the Jesus movement in America in the late 1960s to the 1970s? The hippies and the counterultural youth turned to Christ in masses. It was called the Jesus movement. Go read about it. It spark evangelism, contemporary Christian music and youth ministries worldwide. disillusioned with war and materialism. The young people say, "We want to be warriors for Christ." They call it the Jesus movement. In our lifetime, have we witnessed a movement in your local church, in your local field, in your local congregation. It remind me of 1976, the Suetto uprising. A day student changed a nation and they change the world. It was a movement. Thousands of black students protested against apppeti, the educational policy, the the banttom act that wanted to make Africans a a medium of teaching. They fought it. Global spotlight came on appetite. The brutality it intensified the resistant movement which ultimately led to South Africa's independence. In the 90s, a group of students were determined and they changed the world. I can talk about the Tanaman Square protest in 1989 in China. University students, they called for democratic reforms. Though they were violently suppressed, it sent a global message about freedom and youth courage. In China, young minds became global symbols and the cost they are ready to pay for their freedom. It was a movement GYC not today's GYC was a movement what is masquerading today with the greatest of respect to GYC and its leaders we know those days when Dr. piping and the rest. It was a movement. We were in school. We could not sleep. Something happened. The tapes, the books and new Adventism started emerging. GYC from 2022 was a movement student led, student initiated, student executed. Today we are trying to do a revisionist approach to GYC. That is a matter for another day. But GYC was a movement. Hear me guys. Before heaven sent a people, he sent a picture. Movements don't happen in vacuum. Before God will ever send a group of people, he will always send a picture. I'm going to It's philosophical. I'll break it down. You see before heaven sends a people I repeat he will send a picture a picture here represent a vision before God releases a move he reveals a map anytime God wants to move in a way he will give a map to some people that must catch the vision the reason we can't see movement on the university campuses in the secondary schools and the rest of it our young people are just going to church. They come to church. They are at the back. They are playing with their phones. They sing sometime. They go back. Youth youth camp is more of the same. Parents are disillusioned. What do we do? No, we are dealing with a ministries. We need to transition to movements. And before movements are done, there must be a map. Before God will send a people for a project, there must be a picture. Another way I put it is you cannot have divine momentum without divine mandates. You cannot raise reformers without prophetic revelation. So you are attempting to transform campuses and it's just winding in circles. Do you know the reason why? Proverbs 20 29 verse 18 says where there is no vision the people perish. Do you know why we don't have a movement or we don't have movement emerging? Where is the vision? Where are the visionaries? Where is the picture? Where is the move of God? And where is the map that will collaborate with it? Temples and youth ministries are dying from a lack of people. They are not dying from a lack of people. I meant to say it's starving or they are starving from a lack of authentic vision and I say this with pain. I was born battered bred everything in SDA and I say this pathetically and sometimes people take offenses. Youth ministry is dying. Campus ministries are dying. How do we know? I gave you the data. 68% of Adventist young people, they they've stopped involving church. Nearly 70% of the 18 to 35 years old, they have checked out from our church. 40% of Adventist youth have left the church in their 20s. And there is a book why our teach our teenagers leaving the church. Only 37% are remaining. And the GC has authenticated. It says there is a crisis. So there is a problem. Nobody can debate it. The data says there is a problem. So why are movement not emerging? So this evening we are saying okay they are leaving. Why are they leaving? Because we are giving the ministries. We are not involved in movements and the movement is because we don't have a vision. So because there is no vision we can't we can't develop movements. We can't develop vision. We don't have the vision and movement because nobody has a burden. Nobody has a conviction. Where are the people with burden? Our young people will be lost for all eternity. Who is weeping and crying for a generation? Look, our church is largely illiterates. Largely majority of our members are illiterate. The data says about 97% of Adventists are among 93% of Adventists are among the lower classes of society. Now our children who have gone to university, they are leaving the church and we think it is normal. Look, it has economic implication. Our I wish I can say some things off camera. Hear me. If we do not stop the spiritual declivity, do you know what is going to happen in the next 30 years? Pastors cannot be paid because majority of church members will be unemployed. We're going to have a lot of poor people. It will take us 60 years to build church buildings because the intelligential, the working class, they are leaving. Why? We are giving the ministry not movement. Why are we giving the ministry not movement? There is no vision. Why is there no vision? We have not catch a glimpse of what God is doing or God is saying. And why? We don't have a burden. We don't have a conviction. And hear me loud and hear me clear when I say this. Look, Habacook was tired. Like all the things I'm narrating, Habacook became tired. He was so tired and he was angry with God. So he was burdened. He cried out with the question, why is evil driving? Why is the church silent? Where is the justice? Why are the people leaving Israel? Why? Why? Why? Habac became disillusioned just like today. Today's campuses are like Babylons. They are brilliant but they are broken. They are loud but they are lost. They are educated but they are empty. And guess what we are taking to them? Father Abraham has many sons. Are we mad? The people are brilliant. Extremely creative yet they are broken. They are loud yet they are lost. They are educated yet they are empty. And what are we taking to them? As if they are children class. I want to pronounce on this your pulpit. Our youth ministries curriculum or curriculara must be changed or revised. It might have used or exhausted its use. Can our young people in the youth ministry can they discover their their purpose of existence or they are only learning about ropes and and and consolation in an age of artificial intelligence. Look, when when Habacook was crying, they are brilliant, they are broken, they are loud, they are lost, they are educated, they are empty. Guess what? God did not give him a social media. God gave him one thing, vision. Habac chapter 2 verse 2-3. Then the Lord answered me and said, "Write the vision and make it plain on tables or tablets, that he may run that receipt, for the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it will speak and it will not lie. Though it tries, wait for it because it will surely come, it will not tarry. In this, I see the principle that vision is God's way of announcing. I'm not done. I still have a plan. I'm raising someone. Anytime there is a burden, there is a conviction and we want to form movement for God's glory, God will send a vision. And a vision mean God is saying loudly I am not done. I am not an absentee God. I am still alive. I am raising somewhere. I want to fix the problem. The question is can New Life Church catch a glimpse of God's vision, God's move, God's map, God's picture for the people of this time. Vision is a preview of the future. in this. Oh Lord, give me give give me time. The the Bible says, "And the Lord answered me and said, write the vision." Do you know what vision is not an ambition? It's a revelation. Who told Habacook about the vision? Talk to me. Who told Habacook about the vision? It was God. It's not an ambition. I want to form a group that will be very powerful for God. No, no, no, no, no, no. A vision must be a revelation. It's not an ambition. No. Anytime an ambition is being pushed to transform into a movement, it will fail. Like what was said in the book of Act, if it is of the Lord cameo, it will stand. A vision must be a revelation, not an ambition. Number two, the Bible says, "And the Lord answered me and said, write the vision. Vision must be documented." So, let me put it in context to campus ministries so that you don't get it wrong. Who has given the vision that is being used to run Kenyata University? Who has given the vision that is being used to run University of Nairobi? Who has given the vision that has been used to run University of Ghana? Who has given the vision to run what is being done in University of Johannesburg? Who has given the vision that has been used to run University of Lagos? If it is a vision in a spiritual context, it must be what? A revelation. Has God revealed something to those engaged in youth ministry, campus ministries? Have we gone to God and bow in prayer? Lord, let us catch a glimpse of what you are doing in this last days or it is our ambition that we are using to drive. I announce based on the authority of God's word, it will fail. any ambition that we have spiritually flavor and converted and pushing at a divine vision it will fail. The vision must come from the Lord and from an Adventist perspective two major places. It must be Bible based it must be spirit or prophecy centered. You go to God through prayer with contrition, studying the Bible, it will emerge revival that sustains the world, change the world. They always come from a revelation through the word, not an ambition. Number two, a vision for our campus or for our church. You can do the application. It must be they say write the vision. In other words, my focus is not right. My focus is the definite article that prefix the vision. Vision must be definite. It must not be vague. So what are we doing on the campus? What is the vision? The the not a what is the vision? Is the vision for the campuses fake? Is it vague? Is it so large we can't even know what we want to do? If it is a vision, it must be definite. The prophet says, "And the Lord answered me and said, Write the vision. We speak to the pastors. We are going to the general conference session. We speak to the lay people. Anytime a vision must emerge for the world church, it must be definite. It must be a revelation from the word and the writings of Ellen Y. A vision must be definite, not vain. If you can't define it, you can't pursue it. A vision based on Habacok it says write the vision in this I see vision must be documented not just declared Africans don't document campus ministry did not start 10 years ago it started in Kenya long ago but because we don't document the move of God in Africa so everybody thinks we don't know anything everything they bring then we run at it Africans must When God gives us a vision, we have been doing outreach. Look at the growth of the church in in in your division. Unprecedented. Unprecedented. You are the backbone of Adventism in the world here in East Africa. Somebody must document it. It's not enough to declare. We are good at declaration. We need a group of students, a group of leaders, a group of young professionals who will document the vision and the move of God in our continent and in our churches, in our district, in our campuses. Will somebody not say an amen to that? While if it is a vision, it must be documented. Habacook says it's not just a vision that is revealed. It's not just a vision that is that is definite. It must be documented. Then he says write the vision and make it plain upon tablets or tables. In that is vision must be clarified and simplified not complicated. The reason why movement cannot emerge is because the vision even if it comes from God even if we document it is so complex. The Bible says how what? Make the vision plain. Let the old women know what it is. Let the old men know. Let the parents know. Why is campus ministry not funded? We have not explained it enough. If the vision is clarified, is simplified. What is the ripple? The ultimate ripple is watch it very carefully. that he may run that readeth it. So when the vision is not only a revelation, when the vision is not just documented, when the vision is not just definite, when the vision is not just is not just declared and if it is clarified and simplified, it says the vision must make those who read it, they must run. In other words, vision must spark agency and activate action. Whenever there is a vision, in my note here, I wrote, "If your vision doesn't make people move is just information, could it be that ministry or work on campus has become mere information? Why? Nobody is tickled. Nobody is moved. Parents are losing their children eternally. The children are being lost. Be it lost to gayism, lesbianism, occultism, yet there is nothing. They are no more. They are no more church members. We don't care. Is our vision making people have a sense of urgency? When a group of people caught division in the book of Acts, our Bible text, the apostolic church experienced something. 120 disciples in Acts 11:15 moved to 3,000 disciples in Acts 2. By Act chapter 4, it moved to 5,000. By Act chapter 5, it moved to more and more. You get to Act chapter 6, it is increasing. You get to Act chapter 9, they grew in numbers. You get to Act chapter 16, there was church planting. You get to Act chapter 21, there were many thousands. The Bible says, why? Somebody caught a glimpse of the vision. The vision that must drive campus must not just be a revelation. It must just not be definite. It must not just aside being definite, it must not just be documented instead of being declared. The vision must also be clarified and simplified. It must not be complicated. And we are saying it must spark urgency and activate action. And then the vision we are told God talking to the prophet says it's for an appointed time. Vision must be time bound not open-ended. Timing gives vision both relevance, excence and weight. So God wants to do something in three years. And that is God's timing for the vision. But we will be slow. We will move. By the time we get to it, God has moved on. The time the church they started using radio the church says they won't use radio in many part of the world. The time they started using television the church was hesitant on television. The time social media came many churches were even sorry we have moved to AI now that our church is thinking of live streaming. Now that we are mastering the live streaming the world is gone. We are always late. Every vision must have an appointed time bound. I wish I could say more. But ladies and gentlemen, let me jump and make it very clear. The reason we are in this quagmire is because look, the campus ministry has lost the script. Please, I'm not casting a doubt on any director. Far from it. I'm speaking just from a place of what it is. If I was a campus ministry director today, the results, the data from the world church is telling me God's will, your ministry you are leading has lost the script. How did we lose the script? You see, we have moved from missionaries to marketers. losing the gospel edge for popularity. This is the collapse of campus ministries. Our young people do not understand the spiritual ethos of campus ministries. Our musicians think it's just about vocal cords. No, it's a spiritual work. So, we have moved from missionaries to marketers. Church is not just about data. It's a spiritual movement. So, that without that we have lost the script. How did we lose the script? We've moved from training grounds to entertainment zones, overprogrammed and purpose. So many activities that is never leading to transformation or productivity. So the campus ought to be a training ground. Now what is it? Entertainment zone. Young people do not know what to do. So everybody wants to do music. Music music. Where were the days when people will pray when they lift up a song? Going to the end of the session right now. We are going to sing some two songs and then we pray. Immediately the training sees Ellen White says we need to stop doing too much preaching and do teaching. 68% of our professionals can't defend the Adventist faith. It's not a time for preaching. It's a time for teaching. It's not a time for entertainment. It's a time from training. We have moved from Daniel's thoughtful boldness to silence in Babylon. The fear of being different. Tomorrow I'm going to give a model. Ellen White in the book selected messages gave a model for campus ministries. I'll be dealing with that tomorrow. When you follow that that blueprint, you can't get it wrong. Guess what? Do you know that campus ministry started in the Old Testament? Let me give you some data. Look for the sake of time. There was a campus ministries in Bethl. 2 Kings chapter 2:3. I'll read it. There was a campus ministry at Jericho. 2 Kings 2:5. There was a campus ministry at Giela. 2 Kings 4:32. There was a campus ministry at in the hill valley of Ephraim. 2 Kings 5:22. All these were campus centers. Let me give you the text. So what we are talking about campus ministries please it's not a modernday thing the Bible says now the sons of the prophet who were at Bethl that was a campus 2 Kings 2:5 it talks about now the sons of the prophet who were at Jericho campus ministries 2 Kings 4:32 it says and Elisha returned to Gilgar and there was a famine in the land now the sons of the prophet Gila there was a campus ministries there. 2 Kings 5:22. Do you know there was a campus ministry? He says, "All is well. My master has sent me saying indeed just now two young men of the sons of the prophet have come to me from the mountain of Ephraim. Please give them a talent of silver and two ties of there was a campus ministry at the hill valley of Ephraim." And this this one you need to you need to take note of it. Before Elijah was translated, his focus was not just prison ministries. Was not just street ministry. It was campus. New life church. Hear me. Before Elijah, there was before he was translated. There was a campus ministries. Guess what happened in the campuses. This was what the students were saying. And it came to pass when the Lord was about to take up Elijah into heaven by a wild wind that Elijah went with Elijah from Gilgar. Then Elijah said to Elijah, "Stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me to Bethl." Now the sons of the prophet Kempus, who were at Bethl, came to Elisha and said to him, "Do you know that the Lord will take away your master from over you today?" And he said, "Yes, I know. Keep silent." Then Elijah said to him, "Elijah, stay here, please, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. Before he was taken away, God sent Elijah one, the Lord has sent him to where all the campuses are. He was in Bethl. He was in Jericho. He was in Gilga. Before Jesus took Elijah away, his focus was not in the court of Ahab. It was around the campus. The campus if you ask me before we are translated into heaven. We need to build a movement of student on the campuses. Our pastors, our elders, our the people which means the professionals. If there is any place before we are translated, we need to push our resources it must be on the campuses. Somebody say an amen to that one. It is established in Acts chapter 7. See, we need deliverers who would deliver the world from sin. Guess who was used in in the Bible says Acts 22:3 and Moses was learned in all the wisdoms. No. Act 7:22 of the Egyptians and was mighty in words. Moses had PhD. Some believe he had two PhD. He was a compass product. We need people who will redeem the world. We need intelligential, the brilliant mind, apologetics, those who defend the doctrine of the century, the doctrine of the investigative judgment, the doctrine of of you name it. The all this our doctrine the doctrine the state of the dead healthy all these we need the Moses who will be learned in all the wisdoms of Egypt who will be mighty in words and deed temples another person who changed the world acts 22:3 I am a Jew born in Tasos of Cissia but brought up in this city I studied under Galileo and was thoroughly trained in the law of our ancestors. I was just as zealous for God as any of you are today. Paul says I am a product of temples. He was a PhD. No wonder he wrote to third of the New Testament. Who dares someone says that campus ministries must be an anx. The Bible says before Elijah was taken temples. Moses temples. Paul campus your church must make campus its ideal field in the whole of Nairobi if anybody is looking for a place campus when Paul saw the power of campus movement that's what happened the reason why people are not accepting the three angels messages is because we are failed on the campuses Paul says Act 19 verse 20 verse 18 to verse 10. And he went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months reasoning and persuading concerning the things of the kingdom of God. But when some were hardened and did not believe, but spoke evil of the way before the multitude, he departed from them and withdrew the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannius. Paul was preaching in the city of Nairobi and they were they were shouting at him. They were shouting. They refused to listen. So Paul knew the secret. He went to the University of Tyrannius and build a movement of students and guess what happened for two years. The Bible says and this continued for how many years? Two years. He was at the University of Tyrannos doing campus campus campus campus for two years. And the Bible says based on the movement of student Paul trained all who dwelt in Asia, they heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. I'll continue tomorrow. I end with this quote of Ellen White. Through the labor of students, people living in many cities may become acquainted with the truths of the third angel's message. Paul used it. If we want the everlasting gospel to thrive in Kenya, in Nairobi, where we need to put our money is the campus. Period. Before Jesus comes and we are translated like Elijah, our focus ought to be where the campus when people are resisting the gospel and when we preach they are not hearing. Let's go to the university. Let's train a group of student. Let's generate a movement of student sharp. They are good at research. They can defend the gospel. Let's train them two years. Send them out the whole of East Africa. They will hear the gospel. And Len White says through the labor, not of pastors, not of conference officials, students, people living in many cities may become acquainted with the truths of the third angel's message. Is it possible? Yes or no? Come on. Yes or no? Is it possible? Yes or no? Yes. Can we build a movement of students? Yes or no? Yes. If you are here this evening and you want to tell yourself, everybody can set aside commitment to campus. But by the grace of God, I want to commit to campus. I want you to join me. I want us to sing this song him. We know not the hour of the master's appearing. Yes. Signs all foretell that the moment is nearing. When he shall return, it is the promise most cheering. But we know not the ah. Do you know how to sing it? Can we sing it? As we sing this song and the musician is going to sing, you need to sing excellently. As we sing that song, if you are here or you are online, you want to make a commitment. Lord, this movement of students are not being built. I want to be one of the people who will commit to campus ministry. As we sing the first stanza and sing the refrain, as we sing the second, as we are singing the refrain, I want you to stand on your feet so that we whisper a prayer. Let's be seated and sing it. We know not the hour. 604. Those of you joining online, you join us. We know not the master's appearing. Yet signs, yet signs all fall. The moment is nearing. The moment is near when he shall return. When he shall return, it is the promise. But we know not the hour. This is why we must invest on campus. Anybody here who wants to commit to campus ministry, just stand on your feet. will come. I want to commit to support campus ministry. Don't stand because we say stand up. Stand because you mean it. He will turn in the clouds of his father's bright glory. But we know not the hour. Let's sing the second stanza. I want It's not a shallow commitment. Please, if you want to do your normal commitment, please sit down. I want to commit to campus ministries. who are seeking salvation. There's truth in the world. All the children to the great [Music] he will come. He will come. He will come. He will come. If you are online, just type I commit to campus. I commit to campus. Hallelujah. [Music] is full of glory. But we know [Music] we are. Let's sing the reference one more time. He will come. I want you to come forward. I want to pray with you. Just come here. I want to commit to campus ministry. Just come here. We want to pray right on this altar. We'll watch and we'll pray. We love streamed. I want to commit to campus. Just come. Just just walk and come. Don't feel shy. Just walk and come.j Rejoice every [Music] He will come. He will come. He will come. Let us watch him. [Music] He will come. He will come. Hallelujah. Please come closer. Hallelujah. Hallelu [Music] glory. [Music] The organist will be humming the refrain for us. N I say Nairobi. New life. Hear me loud and clear. My sister, God bless you with your daughter. Before Elijah was translated, where was he? Focused on mission campus. When people were repelling the gospel, Paul went to campus to build a movement. Ellen White says, "If the three angels message or messages will be heard, where must we focus campus?" No life. Every church can abandon campus. Not you. Not just the universities, primary school, secondary school, colleges of education, then the universities. Be intentional. Let your evangelism budget be there. If you are a professional, if there is a place you must concentrate your your your your resources, thank God for the villages. But this last days, if the villages will win, will be one for Christ. It must be a movement must emerge from campus. I'll say this on Sabbath. New life must begin to plan every year one crusade on one public campus. Every year as part of your strategy based on inspired writing, every year we will conduct a decent city flavored thoughtful wellplanned campaign on a university campus and we will build a movement. When there is a place you are to use your resources to encourage them, go to the universities. This is the work cut out for the last days. Let's bow our heads. Father in heaven. We could not finish tonight. A lot to unpack in one session. But thank you. We pray myself and my friends here and those online. The church is experiencing misplaced priorities. Campus hold the future. We can't do ministry. It must be a movement of students. Those of us here, we are enough. Enough to become missionaries of this ideal. Enough to trailblaze a new evangelism module on the campuses. We will carry our students along. We will arrest our students. It can be done. Bless our feeble steps of faith. Bless no life. Not many churches in the world are doing a week-l long program focusing on campus work. They have invested paid etics, hotel bills just that we will expose this ideal. Bless the pastors of this church. Bless the elders of this church. Bless their initiative in the city. They stand out as one of the few churches that are forwardlooking thinking about the campus. Bless them. And those of us who have committed to campus work, bless our feeble faith. Those of us watching online from West Africa, from North Africa, from the diaspora, from Central Africa, from Southern Africa, Lord, bless our hearts in our local churches. May we be ambassadors and missionaries of campus ministries. Bless the faithful pastors who are giving their all, who are struggling. Bless the student leaders. Bless the professionals who are sacrificing their means for campus. Lord, honor their faith. Tomorrow we are moving to the next level. Give us life and give us health. And by your grace, may every one of us here bring one person. And may every one of us online enlist one person. May God bless us. May God keep us. May the God of heaven who has set a vision for campus inspire us. May it not just be a ministry. May it be a movement and may we be part of it. So shall it be. For we have prayed today in Jesus's name. Let's somebody say an amen. God bless you. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[1.1s] Good evening.
[3.5s] How are you doing?
[8.0s] Some of you appeared distressed.
[11.7s] Let me say it one more time. How are you
[13.8s] doing?
[15.8s] Great.
[17.5s] For those of you watching us online, we
[19.7s] welcome you to day number two of our
[24.9s] week-long project
[27.4s] here at New Life in Nairobi.
[31.8s] But as I always do, it was Jesus himself
[35.8s] who said, "If you continue in my words,
[40.5s] then you are my disciples indeed and you
[44.8s] shall know the truth and the truth shall
[48.7s] set you free. If the Son set you free,
[53.6s] you will be free indeed." Can someone
[56.4s] smile and say an amen out there? Amen.
[60.2s] This is a weak amen. It lacks ugali and
[64.8s] chapati. Can somebody say an amen out
[69.1s] there?
[71.4s] I will take this for now. I make to you
[73.8s] four promises. Promise number one is the
[76.6s] Bible is going to be the bedrock of our
[78.6s] study. And the reason is the Bible means
[82.2s] what it says and says just what it
[85.8s] means. Promise number two is you are
[88.2s] going to be enlightened irrespective of
[90.7s] who you are. Promise number three is you
[93.5s] are going to be challenged to make the
[95.6s] most important decision of your life.
[98.2s] And promise number four, your life and
[101.6s] mine will never be the same. Our subject
[106.3s] for this hour is titled Blueprint for a
[110.8s] movement. Subheading, Heaven's Vision
[114.4s] for Campus Mission. Blueprint for a
[118.2s] movement. Subheading, Heaven's Vision
[122.4s] for Campus Mission. It's instructive to
[126.8s] know that the brother theme we are using
[131.4s] for this week-long project is called,
[135.7s] charged, commissioned.
[139.1s] All past tense, called past tense,
[142.7s] charged past tense and commissioned past
[146.8s] tense.
[148.3s] Now the scripture text on which we build
[152.1s] this week-long project is Acts 1 verse8.
[156.6s] But you shall receive power when the
[159.3s] Holy Spirit has come upon you and you
[162.0s] shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem
[165.4s] and in all Judea and Samaria and to the
[169.1s] end of the earth. So we broke this text
[172.6s] down in three areas. When we say called
[177.0s] or called the text means you shall be
[181.7s] witnesses to me. God has called every
[185.6s] individual, every person and in our
[188.8s] context, every campus to be a place of
[193.8s] witnessing and every student and every
[197.1s] lecturer and every person associated on
[200.7s] campus. God says I have called you to be
[204.6s] witnesses to me. Then the second part of
[209.0s] the theme says charged. In that we say
[212.9s] you shall receive power. God has charged
[217.2s] us through the power or the anointing of
[221.1s] the Holy Spirit to do mission. This
[224.8s] generation is not waiting for more
[228.1s] information. What they are in search of
[231.6s] is a desperate need for transformation.
[236.1s] So we are charged with power to be able
[239.8s] to influence the campus and we are going
[242.4s] to look throughout the week how do we do
[244.8s] so and the third part of the theme is
[247.8s] called charged and commissioned. The
[251.0s] Bible says you are called to be
[253.8s] witnesses to the end of the earth. We
[257.4s] are commissioned to the very end of the
[261.2s] earth. In the book of Matthew it says to
[264.0s] all nations. It include the nation of
[268.1s] university campuses, the nations of
[271.3s] public secondary schools, you name them
[273.9s] in context. So when we say called,
[278.0s] charge and commission, it's not a
[281.5s] slogan, it's a divine attempt to do, to
[287.0s] say, and to dispatch the gospel in a
[291.0s] very meaningful way. So throughout the
[293.5s] week we will be playing around this
[296.0s] fears. The first three days is dealing
[299.0s] with the concept of called
[302.5s] that's what we are focusing on. So for
[304.8s] this evening we will deal with blueprint
[307.8s] for movement or for a movement heaven's
[311.0s] vision for campus mission. This is not
[314.5s] your typical revival. It is a hybrid of
[319.1s] a seminar, a solutionbased brainstorming
[322.9s] moment and then there is a revival
[325.3s] component. So you are going to see a lot
[327.7s] of things. It's a buffet of things
[331.2s] pulled together. So just brace up. If
[334.4s] you are in Nairobi and you are in the
[336.8s] comfort of your home, you'll be missing
[338.8s] something. So I urge you to be part in
[342.6s] person. And for those of you watching
[344.2s] from West Africa to Southern Africa,
[346.3s] Central Africa and around the globe, we
[349.0s] welcome you to day number two.
[352.0s] Yesterday, we gave what we call the
[355.0s] framework for a week-l long program
[358.4s] titled the forgotten battlefield.
[362.1s] Why campus ministries holds the future
[365.8s] for the church. That has not been
[367.8s] exhausted. But I'm going to break the
[370.6s] yesterday's 85% of the unexhausted
[374.2s] content. I will break it down throughout
[376.8s] the week and I will lace it with other
[380.1s] presentations.
[381.7s] For tonight, I have two objectives or
[385.2s] two goals.
[387.0s] Before we go further, let's bow our
[389.8s] heads. Let's pray. Father in heaven,
[392.7s] this evening is setting the tone and the
[395.2s] foundation
[396.9s] for what ought to be the onslaught that
[401.8s] must be happening on campus. Give us a
[405.4s] message for the hour, not just for the
[408.1s] church in Kenya, across Africa, the
[412.2s] world church. May we catch a glimpse of
[415.4s] your vision for what you are intending
[418.2s] to do in this last days. Our prayer we
[421.7s] have asked in Jesus's name. Amen.
[429.4s] The first objective for today is to
[432.0s] expose and replace the programdriven
[437.4s] culture of campus ministry with heaven's
[441.2s] vision for raising spiritled movement.
[444.4s] Let me say that one more time. This
[446.9s] evening, my assignment is to expose
[450.4s] and replace the programdriven culture of
[455.6s] campus ministry with heaven's vision for
[459.7s] raising spiritled
[462.1s] movement. My second objective is to
[466.2s] equip student
[468.5s] and I dare say those related to student
[471.4s] ministry to see that their degrees are
[475.8s] divine assignment and their campuses as
[479.8s] mission field.
[482.0s] This is the two objective. But it's
[484.9s] instructive to ask when we say a
[487.4s] blueprint, what do we mean? In fact, if
[491.2s] you were not in a large auditorium, I
[494.0s] would have walked to you with a
[495.6s] microphone and asked what? Because
[498.2s] without understanding the key defining
[502.5s] words or blocks of the topic, we will
[505.8s] not understand the message. The topic is
[509.0s] blueprint for a movement. So the
[513.0s] question is we need to know what is a
[515.3s] blueprint. We need to know what
[517.6s] characterize a movement. So a blueprint
[521.2s] is a detailed underline that precise
[525.1s] plan or design used to build, create or
[530.6s] execute something. In fact, a blueprint
[533.8s] in architecture is the master drawing
[537.4s] that guides the construction of a
[540.1s] building. A blueprint.
[543.8s] So in context we are going to see the
[547.4s] detailed precise plan or design
[551.8s] dispatched by God for us to build for us
[556.1s] to create for us to execute a
[559.3s] spiritbased onslaught on campuses
[562.7s] blueprint.
[565.2s] Now having known what the blueprint is
[568.2s] as a detailed precise a blueprint is not
[571.2s] a sketch.
[573.0s] Many of the things running around in the
[575.5s] name of campus ministry, they are
[578.2s] sketches. In case you may not know, all
[581.4s] my life at I've ministered on campus.
[586.4s] I have ministered technically for the
[590.0s] past 20 years of my life on campus
[593.9s] specifically. I used to serve first when
[597.2s] I completed my theological program in
[599.5s] case maybe a credential like the apostle
[602.0s] Paul would say I I I serve as the
[605.6s] assistant chaplain in the university.
[609.4s] Immediately I graduated from school the
[611.5s] theological seminary. Then when I was
[615.6s] sent to the district, I served as the
[619.2s] campus pastor for three universities or
[623.7s] higher institutions.
[626.0s] Then I was appointed as the campus
[629.8s] ministry director for my union.
[633.2s] Literally taking charge of what campus
[636.3s] ministry creating a blueprint, a vision.
[640.1s] So I speak from a place not just of
[643.8s] passion, from a place of technical
[646.8s] knowledge and from a place of of of
[650.2s] competence if you permit. So in case
[653.7s] some of my statement come across a
[655.7s] little cocky, a little a little loud,
[659.4s] please allow me. I I am speaking from a
[662.7s] place not of ignorance. If that is
[664.9s] clear, say an amen. Amen. That's a weak
[668.2s] amen. Amen. This Kenyan people they want
[670.6s] to kill me.
[674.5s] I repeat many of the things masquerading
[678.0s] on campus today they are not blueprint
[683.8s] they are sketches.
[687.0s] Now
[688.8s] there is a difference or there is a
[691.5s] difference between ministry and the
[694.1s] movement.
[697.1s] We don't want to convert the campuses to
[700.6s] be another ministry. We want to raise a
[704.8s] movement.
[706.8s] The church in this last days can ill
[710.2s] afford to have a student, our young
[714.0s] people and university lecturers involved
[717.5s] in campus ministries from a place of
[721.2s] ministry.
[723.0s] So we say that blueprint for a movement
[728.0s] and so I want to define what do I mean
[731.0s] by a movement.
[734.2s] A movement in excent is a collective
[737.8s] surge of people. A group of people
[741.0s] united by a shared vision driven by
[745.3s] purpose and sustained by conviction.
[748.8s] mobilizing action that challenges norms
[752.6s] that reshape cultures and create lasting
[756.0s] social, political or generational
[759.0s] change. A movement. So watch the key
[761.8s] words. The key words in a movement is
[764.8s] vision is vision centered. Movement is
[769.1s] peoplepowered.
[771.4s] Movement is actionoriented.
[774.6s] Movement is transformational in outlook.
[778.2s] Let me say it slowly. A movement is
[781.7s] vision centered. A movement is
[785.2s] peoplepowered.
[787.0s] A movement is actionoriented.
[790.6s] And a movement is transformational
[794.1s] in essence relevant and out to look. If
[798.2s] I'm speaking from a spiritual
[799.8s] perspective, I will say a movement is
[803.4s] God initiated, spiritdriven,
[807.0s] vision anchored, awakening that
[810.2s] mobilizes ordinary people to pursue an
[813.9s] extraordinary assignment with urgency,
[818.1s] with sacrifice and an unshakable purpose
[821.9s] until cultural, spiritual, generational
[825.4s] transformation occurs. Yes. Movement. So
[829.1s] we are not in the business of raising
[831.4s] another campus church.
[834.0s] Please get it very clear to the student
[836.7s] leaders here to the pastors, the
[839.3s] directors, the union leaders, the
[841.6s] conference official. This must form a
[844.3s] template. When we are appointing people
[847.3s] to do campus ministry, they need to be
[850.1s] people with the ferveny, with the power,
[853.9s] with the caliber, with the competence to
[856.9s] drive a movement, not another church on
[860.1s] campus.
[862.3s] What is happening is we have
[866.0s] a campusflavored local church.
[870.4s] No campus ministry can ill afford to be
[875.8s] ministry oriented. It must be movement
[879.1s] based in case you forget again. It must
[881.8s] be vision centered. It must be people
[884.5s] powered. It must be actionoriented. It
[887.4s] must be transformational in outlook. So
[890.2s] when we say blueprint for a movement,
[894.5s] heaven's vision for campus, we are not
[897.4s] just putting grammar together. It's
[900.3s] deliberate. In case you forget, a
[903.3s] blueprint also tells you what must be
[907.0s] built, how it must be built, when it
[910.3s] must be built, and why it must be built.
[913.8s] So when you pull together a blueprint
[916.7s] and a movement that is that is a
[920.5s] dynamite
[922.8s] and this is what it ought to be in this
[925.8s] last days. Yesterday
[928.9s] I gave you the stressful announcement
[933.5s] that our church is an endangered
[936.5s] species.
[938.7s] What you may not know it's not just our
[941.3s] church. Christianity is now an
[943.8s] endangered species. The Harvard Ox the
[947.0s] Oxford University's religious department
[950.2s] did a research every year 15 million
[953.8s] people are added to Christianity. By the
[957.2s] close of the year only 3.8 million
[959.9s] remains
[961.5s] after COVID. Are you aware that 60% of
[965.4s] our church members did not show up in
[967.6s] church last year in 2023? 60% according
[972.6s] to the general conference they did not
[974.9s] come to church.
[977.0s] So Christianity be it orthodox,
[978.9s] charismatic, pentecostal, they are there
[981.3s] is an onslaught. Many people are
[983.6s] becoming non-Christians on all sides.
[988.2s] So there is a problem. So we cannot go
[990.9s] to university the jungles of higher
[995.1s] learning and then we are doing more of
[997.8s] the same. In any case, anybody who will
[1001.0s] be coming here to sing this week, you
[1002.8s] better rehearse your song well because
[1005.4s] we can't ill afford to have another
[1008.4s] group of generation of Christians who
[1010.7s] sings like they are sleeping. Your songs
[1013.7s] must be intentional. Everything must be
[1016.6s] clean. I am not speaking to those of you
[1018.4s] who s today, but you bear me out. If you
[1021.4s] are not ready to sing properly, you
[1023.4s] let's play some song. We are not ready
[1025.4s] for any zombie music in this place.
[1029.2s] Campus ministry is not a ministry. It's
[1031.7s] a movement.
[1033.6s] And I'm coming to give seven reason why
[1036.2s] a movement is essential. Seven reasons.
[1040.3s] You better take the note down. Reason
[1042.7s] number one why a movement is essential.
[1046.9s] Movement they birth legacy not just
[1050.2s] activity.
[1051.8s] In other words, programs aspire.
[1055.0s] Movement echo throughout generations. So
[1058.7s] we don't need a ministry to student. We
[1061.8s] need a movement of student. Why?
[1064.8s] Whenever you want to leave a legacy, it
[1067.3s] is on the back of movement. And movement
[1070.7s] is not just activity. I gave you the
[1073.0s] four areas of its focus.
[1076.9s] Movement rate disciples who multiply
[1079.8s] long after the original leaders are
[1082.1s] gone. So the Bible put it this way in 2
[1085.4s] Timothy chapter 2:2. And the things
[1087.5s] which you have heard from me among many
[1090.2s] witnesses. Commit these to faithful men
[1093.3s] who will be able to teach others also. I
[1097.2s] repeat, why do we need a movement on the
[1100.5s] campus not a ministry to student?
[1103.0s] Movement birth legacy not just activity.
[1108.0s] Reason number two why movement is
[1109.5s] critical is movements they mobilize many
[1113.3s] people or the many not just the gifted
[1116.1s] few
[1117.9s] movements don't rely on platforms they
[1121.2s] empower people movement in ence in a
[1125.8s] movement everyone is a carrier not a
[1129.2s] consumer acts 8:4 says they that were
[1133.9s] scattered went everywhere preaching the
[1137.0s] were in the book of act. The gospel
[1140.0s] explosion we saw was not a ministry
[1143.0s] explosion. It was a movement explosion.
[1146.6s] Why? Movement de mobilize the many, not
[1151.2s] just the gifted. The reason why our
[1154.6s] students are slobbish, they are
[1157.2s] careless, they are reckless and they are
[1160.6s] literally tired and leaving the church.
[1163.0s] We have made a ministry out of them and
[1166.6s] not a movement out of them. We are
[1169.7s] focusing on the gifted few and we don't
[1172.6s] know how to galvanize an army to do an
[1176.3s] onslaught on the centers of learning.
[1179.4s] Why must we be interested in movement as
[1182.6s] its benefit? Is movement the challenge
[1186.4s] systems and shift cultures?
[1191.2s] Why must the campuses become a movement
[1194.4s] of students? Movements challenge systems
[1197.9s] and shift cultures. Movement are the
[1201.4s] disruptive
[1203.0s] group or agency by nature. They reform,
[1207.4s] they confront and they transform. If you
[1210.6s] want to change a culture, don't build a
[1214.2s] ministry, build what we call war, a
[1217.7s] movement.
[1219.2s] Why? Movement challenge systems and they
[1223.6s] shift cultures. The slobish nature we
[1227.0s] see today, the inability to evangelize
[1230.7s] the world we see today will not be
[1233.4s] changed by our lame dark ministry model.
[1238.2s] It must be based on movement.
[1242.2s] And one characteristic of a movement is
[1244.8s] it keeps moving. Our church used to be
[1248.6s] called a movement but now we have
[1251.8s] settled. We got built hospitals,
[1254.7s] schools, church buildings, institution.
[1257.4s] So there is no movement anymore. No
[1259.9s] wonder the Bible described the church in
[1262.6s] the last days is a loudian church. A
[1265.4s] church arrogant, a church
[1267.1s] self-conceited, a blind church, a
[1270.1s] clueless church. Why? It has been
[1272.7s] converted from a movement. We now have
[1275.5s] professional pastors, professional
[1277.4s] administrators, professional this,
[1279.4s] professional that, professional that.
[1281.4s] movement. They challenge systems and
[1284.7s] they shift cultures.
[1287.4s] Why must the universities become a place
[1290.9s] of movement? You see, a true movement
[1293.3s] exposes compromise and it death revival.
[1296.6s] Romans 12:2 says, "And do not be
[1299.4s] conformed to this world." That is a
[1301.4s] movement. But be transformed by the
[1304.1s] renewing of your mind that you may prove
[1306.7s] what is good and acceptable and perfect
[1309.6s] will of God. movement they exposes
[1312.9s] compromises. So normally established
[1316.1s] organizations don't like movement and
[1319.0s] they don't like people who want to push
[1321.7s] for a movement. Why? They challenge
[1325.8s] systems and they shift the cultures.
[1329.0s] Reason number four why our campuses must
[1331.9s] be a movement is movement outlives
[1335.2s] moments.
[1337.8s] Event inspire temporarily
[1343.6s] movements they transform permanently.
[1348.6s] events whenever there are events you'll
[1351.2s] be you'll be you'll be challenged
[1353.5s] everybody is on air it's temporarily if
[1356.9s] we do not build the movement what we
[1358.7s] want to do this week we just don't want
[1360.8s] listen I I prefer we have 30 people 100
[1365.4s] people 200 people that will serve as the
[1368.8s] nuclos of a new emerging movement of
[1372.2s] campus work in East Africa somebody
[1374.3s] should say an amen out there why
[1377.8s] movement meant they outlive moments.
[1381.5s] You see what begins as fire in one heart
[1385.0s] becomes reformation in a generation. How
[1388.6s] movement.
[1390.5s] The fifth reason why temples cannot be a
[1393.2s] ministry. It must be a movement. If you
[1395.8s] study from act chapter 2 to act chapter
[1397.8s] 28, movements are God's pattern for
[1401.0s] advancing his kingdom. Movements.
[1404.6s] Every major spiritual shift in scripture
[1408.8s] was movement based not meeting based
[1413.1s] immediately
[1414.6s] is predictable.
[1416.8s] Immediately is routine.
[1419.8s] Immediately it's more of the same.
[1422.9s] Immediately we are going along by
[1425.1s] getting along. Know that it's no more a
[1427.5s] movement. At best it's now a monument.
[1434.6s] We need to let the campuses become a
[1437.0s] movement. Why? From Exodus to the book
[1439.8s] of art. God moves through movement and
[1443.8s] not monuments.
[1447.2s] Check it out. The children of Israel,
[1449.7s] they were always moving,
[1452.3s] always moving from Gan till they reach
[1456.1s] Kaa. Movement, movement, movement,
[1459.2s] movement, movement. If the church wants
[1462.5s] to see the prophecy made in Joel chapter
[1466.2s] 2:28 and in those days I'll pour my
[1469.6s] spirit on all flesh and your young ones
[1472.2s] will prophesy. If you want to see that
[1475.5s] the church must be inclined to
[1478.4s] galvanizing the student base from
[1481.6s] ministry to movement. Ministry is more
[1484.9s] of pastors will will counel the student,
[1487.8s] pastors are in charge. No ministry
[1490.2s] students are at the forefront. Is
[1492.6s] student initiated is student led and is
[1495.9s] student executed. Students are not
[1498.7s] participant. They are the active
[1502.1s] originators of ideas and they are in the
[1505.4s] forefront and when they make mistakes
[1507.9s] they get better and a new generation
[1510.5s] will emerge. We need a movement in the
[1513.9s] last days. Why must our campuses be a
[1517.1s] movement? movement turns spectators into
[1520.7s] soldiers.
[1524.2s] If you want to see you you see the youth
[1526.9s] in the church here at New Life, you want
[1529.4s] to see your young people be it the very
[1532.9s] group that are living in droves age 18
[1535.8s] to 35. If we want to make them become
[1539.1s] soldiers, we want to convert them from
[1541.8s] being spectators. our youth ministry,
[1544.7s] our campus ministry, our our how do we
[1548.3s] call it adventure group. It must move
[1550.7s] from ministry toward movement.
[1555.1s] Why? Movement demands participation not
[1558.3s] observation. Movement demands commitment
[1561.8s] not mere participation. So it moves or
[1564.6s] it challenges observation. Stop
[1566.8s] observing, participate. It won't stop
[1569.3s] there. Movement will pick you from stop
[1571.6s] participating. be committed.
[1577.1s] So,
[1578.9s] and I'm going to share with you stories,
[1581.8s] real life
[1584.2s] mission stories of how movements were
[1587.8s] birthed and image. Ladies and gentlemen,
[1590.2s] a movement breaks spiritual passivity by
[1594.7s] calling every believer into divine
[1598.2s] assignment for the equipping of the
[1601.3s] saints. Paul says for the work of
[1603.9s] ministry for the edifying of the body of
[1607.0s] Christ.
[1608.6s] The seventh reason why it cannot be mere
[1611.7s] ministry to student but it must be a
[1614.4s] movement not to student of student. It's
[1618.2s] not ministry to student. It is movement
[1621.2s] not movement to student but a movement
[1623.9s] of student. The reason is movement
[1627.0s] restore purpose to ordinary places.
[1631.7s] Dorms,
[1633.4s] rooms becomes upper rooms. Lecture halls
[1637.2s] become mission grounds. Movement
[1640.1s] redefine territory.
[1643.0s] Wherever the people of God move, meaning
[1646.9s] returns. So when there is a movement on
[1649.9s] University of Kenyata, University of
[1653.0s] Nairobi, whichever university you may
[1655.4s] be, University of Johannesburg,
[1657.7s] University of Ghana, University of
[1659.7s] Calaba, you name it. Whenever a movement
[1663.5s] emerge and it is flavored with God's
[1666.2s] people, it brings meaning. The true
[1669.1s] reason why university education was
[1671.8s] established will be restored. How?
[1674.5s] Movement.
[1677.6s] this week. Look,
[1680.6s] it's not a ceremon. It's a sermon.
[1683.8s] It's not a conference. It's a
[1686.2s] construction site. That's why I told you
[1687.8s] it's not your typical revival.
[1692.1s] So, let me summarize it. One, movement
[1694.6s] birth legacy, not just activity.
[1697.4s] Movement mobilize the many, not just the
[1699.8s] gifted few. Movement challenge systems
[1702.2s] and shift cultures. Movement outlives
[1705.6s] moment. Movement are God's pattern for
[1708.9s] advancing his kingdom. Movement turns
[1711.5s] spectators into soldiers. Movement
[1714.6s] restore purpose to ordinary people. This
[1717.5s] is the way I put it and I wish they
[1719.2s] could project it for me. A movement is
[1722.6s] what happens when vision finds a voice,
[1726.6s] convision finds a community, and
[1729.1s] obedience finds momentum. Let me say it
[1732.0s] one more time. A movement is what
[1734.6s] happens when vision finds a voice,
[1738.3s] conviction finds a community, and
[1741.3s] obedience finds momentum, then you know
[1745.0s] a movement has arrived. Somebody say
[1747.6s] movement.
[1749.1s] Come on, talk to me. Somebody say
[1751.1s] movement.
[1753.0s] It's a weak one. Are you sick? Have you
[1755.1s] not eaten? Somebody say movement.
[1758.7s] Yes. Those of you watching online, just
[1760.7s] type hashtag movement.
[1764.4s] I'm talking about blueprint to a
[1766.7s] movement.
[1769.0s] What are the key elements of a movement?
[1772.7s] Quickly,
[1774.5s] what's the time? When am I too close?
[1779.0s] All right.
[1780.9s] Hear me. Whenever you want to know, is
[1784.2s] this a ministry or is it a movement? How
[1787.3s] do you know? Number one, it begins with
[1790.1s] a burden, not an agenda. Movement don't
[1793.4s] begin with agenda. You know, people do
[1796.5s] things so that they will at you know, I
[1798.7s] was in your country last year when the
[1800.6s] jenzes were having their demonstration
[1803.1s] and there was a swelling ground. You
[1805.4s] know, now I'm reading people are saying
[1807.1s] some people they were sellout, they had
[1809.4s] agenda, they wanted to, you know, all
[1812.3s] kind of stuff. I have been following it
[1814.0s] very deeply and I see some individuals
[1817.7s] being po are being held at some young
[1820.3s] people. Listen, whenever it is a
[1822.6s] movement, there is a burden. There is no
[1825.7s] hidden agenda. Mm-m.
[1828.6s] A true movement is birthed in holy
[1831.8s] discontent.
[1833.7s] Not from a strategic plan or a calendar
[1835.8s] event. No, no, no. That is not a
[1837.6s] movement. No, that that's not a
[1840.2s] movement. Movement is not an agenda
[1842.1s] setting. No, no, no, no, no. So the
[1844.2s] first characteristic is there a deep
[1846.6s] burden? A deep burden, authentic, real,
[1851.9s] it's not, it's not hypocritical. If yes,
[1855.0s] then it has it has the first
[1856.9s] characteristics of a movement. So on the
[1859.4s] campus, have we laid the burden on the
[1862.0s] heart of the student? Can our young
[1863.8s] people see the reason why we are saying
[1866.5s] we are this, we must do this, it must be
[1868.8s] that, it must be that. What is the goal?
[1871.9s] Is there a burden? Is there a burden in
[1875.3s] the heart of the pastors? Is there a
[1877.1s] burden in the heart of church leaders?
[1878.8s] It's it's it's possible even at the
[1881.6s] general conference level, we may bring
[1883.7s] out a department called PCM. But chances
[1886.5s] may be that there is not a deep burden.
[1888.6s] I'm saying chances may be so if we want
[1891.4s] to build a movement, we need to first
[1893.8s] ask the question, is there a burden? A
[1897.3s] true movement is birthed in holy
[1900.8s] discontent not from a strategic plan or
[1904.2s] from event calendar.
[1908.5s] I wish I had time I will have broken
[1910.0s] down what is a burden. Second thing you
[1912.2s] can see whenever there is a a a a a
[1915.4s] movement is it be birth conviction
[1919.2s] not just emotion. No a movement is not
[1922.7s] just emotion flavor. There is not just a
[1926.0s] burden. There is a conviction.
[1930.2s] Movement are not built on hype but they
[1933.1s] are built on deep rooted unshakable
[1935.2s] belief.
[1937.0s] Emotion fades with time but convictions
[1940.5s] anchors people in stop. No matter what
[1943.1s] is said, no matter what is done, it is a
[1945.8s] conviction. My belief in campus
[1948.3s] ministries is not a title. I resigned
[1951.9s] from church work but it is based on
[1954.4s] conviction. I understand by the grace of
[1957.4s] God that it is what holds the key to the
[1960.7s] church we envision. Anytime you want to
[1963.8s] birth a movement you need to ask a
[1965.9s] question. Have we laid a conviction on
[1969.0s] the heart of the people? Those who are
[1970.9s] emerging with it those who want to bring
[1973.0s] it forth. Do you have not just a burden?
[1977.0s] Do you have a conviction? Conviction
[1980.0s] make people act even when they are
[1983.1s] afraid. They will act even when they are
[1986.1s] tired. They will act even when it will
[1988.6s] make them unpopular. That is a
[1990.4s] conviction.
[1992.1s] Movement don't survive on inspiration.
[1995.4s] They thrive on internal fire.
[1998.1s] Psychologists call it there must be an
[2000.2s] intrinsic motivational factor, not an
[2002.9s] extrinsic motiv. No, no, no, no, no.
[2005.0s] There is fire in your belly. Movement
[2008.2s] thrives on that not on inspiration. No.
[2011.7s] And a lot of the conviction might lead
[2013.4s] to perspiration. You will work out
[2016.5s] movement. When you want to see a
[2018.5s] movement, it's burden flavored. It's
[2021.5s] conviction uh center. And the third
[2024.6s] thing is it demands obedience, not just
[2027.4s] enthusiasm. No way.
[2030.2s] Many times what we are asking our young
[2032.2s] people to do and some of the students
[2034.4s] what is being done is it's just a lot of
[2036.6s] rah
[2038.2s] a lot of excitement. No way. It's not
[2040.9s] about youthful exuberant. It's about
[2043.4s] obedience.
[2045.3s] Fire is not enough
[2047.8s] to faithfully follow through what
[2050.0s] burden, what conviction God has laid on
[2052.9s] us. That is it. What we need in this
[2055.7s] last days, we need a generation of
[2057.6s] pastors, elders, churches that will not
[2060.6s] just speak about campus ministry with a
[2062.6s] burden, that will not just be convicted
[2064.6s] about campus ministry with a burden.
[2066.9s] They must be willing to obey. It demands
[2070.1s] obedience. If you want to build a
[2072.5s] movement, there must be obedience. So to
[2075.2s] the students watching, to the directors
[2077.4s] watching, whoever we may be, wherever we
[2080.0s] may be, whoever we are, we need to ask a
[2083.7s] question. Do I have a burden? Do I have
[2088.0s] a conviction? Am I willing to obey? And
[2091.5s] that takes me to the fourth point.
[2093.5s] Whenever you see a movement, what do you
[2095.8s] see? It multiplies people, not just
[2098.6s] events.
[2100.2s] Events attract crowds. Movement activate
[2104.3s] careers.
[2106.3s] Event will attract crowd. But what a
[2109.7s] movement does is it activates something
[2112.8s] within the people that they carry the
[2115.4s] burden. They carry the conviction. They
[2118.2s] carry the obedience. That is what we
[2120.3s] call the commencement or the birth of a
[2124.2s] movement.
[2128.0s] Lastly,
[2130.9s] movement
[2132.6s] continues without titles or stages, but
[2136.6s] the fire is eternal. Movements don't
[2140.7s] need official positions.
[2143.7s] They need burning hearts.
[2146.5s] So, you may not be the campus ministries
[2148.3s] director,
[2149.9s] but because it is a move of God that is
[2153.7s] shaping movement, you don't care. It's
[2156.6s] not about your role. It's about the
[2160.3s] goal. That is a movement. I don't care
[2163.8s] if I am not at the center stage. I am
[2166.5s] not in the m the limelight. I don't
[2169.0s] care. All I care about is let the work
[2172.6s] be done. So it's not about my role. It's
[2176.6s] about the goal. That is the flavor of a
[2180.6s] movement. In ence, a real movement
[2183.7s] doesn't begin with a microphone.
[2186.3s] It begins with the burden, burns with
[2189.4s] conviction, walks with obedience,
[2192.4s] multiplies disciples, and doesn't stop
[2195.0s] until God says it's done. That is a
[2197.7s] movement. And this is where we need to
[2199.8s] bring our children, our young people,
[2201.8s] the university students hearing me, you
[2203.9s] are student leader. It's not just a
[2206.0s] matter of you are the president of Kosa.
[2208.2s] Is that it? Is it Kosa?
[2210.5s] Come again. Kokasa.
[2213.3s] No. A real movement. It doesn't begin
[2215.8s] with a microphone. 1 2 3. No, it begins
[2219.1s] with a burden. It burns with conviction.
[2222.8s] It works with obedience. It multiplies
[2225.8s] disciples. And it doesn't stop until God
[2228.6s] says it is done. That is what we call a
[2232.9s] movement.
[2236.1s] If I had gotten time and we were in a
[2238.5s] group, I will have ask you every group
[2240.9s] you go 10 minutes state five major
[2244.2s] movements you have witnessed in your
[2246.4s] lifetime
[2250.2s] since you became a 7th day Adventist.
[2253.3s] Have you seen the emergence of a
[2256.5s] movement?
[2259.7s] If no, something is wrong.
[2265.4s] I can remind you
[2268.7s] that
[2270.7s] the early church movement in the first
[2273.2s] century,
[2274.8s] Jesus's disciples were likely under 30.
[2279.6s] Many possibly were told by some rabbis
[2282.9s] that they were teenagers
[2286.1s] and few professionals among them.
[2289.8s] They spread the gospel across continent
[2292.5s] in one generation. That was a movement I
[2295.0s] call them the early church movement.
[2299.3s] The key actors youth led, youth
[2303.0s] initiated. It was started in an upper
[2305.4s] room but it overtook the Roman Empire
[2308.9s] led by the Holy Spirit inciting a
[2312.0s] movement of youth in in the first
[2315.1s] century. It is a movement. I recall the
[2318.7s] Protestant Reformation in the 16th
[2321.6s] century. That was a movement.
[2325.0s] Luther was 33 years old when he nailed
[2328.6s] his 95 thesis at the University of
[2331.0s] Wittenberg. 33 years. The impact is
[2335.4s] sparked a theological, cultural and
[2338.0s] educational revolution across the world.
[2341.2s] That was a movement. and the key youth
[2343.7s] insight, youth or young university
[2346.2s] students like Philillip and others drove
[2350.0s] the wave of reform across Europe. That
[2353.1s] was a movement I I can remind Ghana's
[2356.9s] independence in 1957 when Kwamian Kruma
[2360.2s] led a pan-African flavored movement to
[2362.6s] say enough of the of of of of the
[2366.2s] suppression of the black race and Africa
[2368.9s] must be independent. And when he
[2370.9s] declared with a group of his people that
[2373.0s] from now on there is a new Africa in the
[2375.2s] world and he says Ghana's independent is
[2377.8s] meaningless unless it leads to the total
[2379.9s] liberation of the African continent.
[2382.2s] That was a movement. A movement that
[2384.8s] brought a cyclical impact. Unruma's bold
[2388.3s] panaffrican vision brought effect. It
[2391.0s] brought independence to Kenya, to
[2393.3s] Nigeria, to Congo, to South Africa. That
[2396.7s] was a movement. If you think about a
[2399.4s] movement, I can talk about the American
[2401.1s] civil rights movement in the 1950s to
[2404.2s] the 1960s. Young people led it.
[2408.8s] What our young people's what movement
[2410.6s] are they forming today? Who
[2415.3s] then they play drafts?
[2417.6s] Then they they check Tik Tok. Sometimes
[2421.4s] stupid content are be created. Just
[2424.8s] check popularity. No burden, no
[2427.8s] conviction,
[2429.3s] nothing. Young people, listen. In the
[2433.4s] 1950s and the 1960, student led sitins,
[2438.1s] freedom rights and protest across
[2441.1s] America,
[2442.6s] overturned segregation
[2445.0s] and the laws and shaped the justice
[2447.4s] system in America. How a movement
[2450.3s] emerged. It had a burden. It had a
[2453.6s] conviction. It had a certain level of
[2456.2s] sacrifice and obedience. Look, Martin
[2459.1s] Luther King was 26
[2462.0s] when he led the Montgomery bus boycott.
[2466.1s] 26.
[2468.8s] The student nonviolent committee. They
[2471.2s] call it the SNC
[2473.9s] was youthled movement.
[2477.0s] I have seen movement. The Adventist
[2479.0s] Millerite movement in the 1830s and the
[2481.9s] 1840s. That was a movement.
[2485.4s] Young people like Elen Gin Y received
[2488.1s] vision at 18 17 years after that. In
[2491.4s] fact, if you are singing
[2493.6s] him 441 in our HIM book, it's written by
[2499.7s] what is his name? Smith's brother.
[2503.0s] I saw one weary sudden turn with and
[2506.8s] Smith with eager press on. He was 15
[2510.8s] years. Check the lyrics of him. 441 SDH.
[2516.2s] A movement emerged. The Adventist
[2519.3s] Milliarite movement. That was a
[2521.8s] movement. It was what built the 7th Day
[2525.1s] Adventist Church. It was a movement.
[2527.6s] Youth led, youth initiated. There were
[2530.3s] some old people guiding them. But that
[2532.5s] was a movement. I can talk about the
[2534.8s] Auza street revival from 1906 to 1909
[2539.6s] with it misguided nature as
[2543.0s] theologically we can expound but young
[2545.9s] African-American men and women led
[2548.6s] prayerdriven gatherings you can say it
[2551.6s] is misguided whatever but the birth of
[2554.1s] the Pentecostal charismatic movement was
[2556.6s] led by young people youthled movements
[2561.8s] it was not powered by the pastors
[2564.2s] It was powered by young students, young
[2567.3s] seekers, young professionals hungry for
[2570.2s] the Holy Spirit. What do we see today?
[2572.6s] Normal church service. Saturday, we
[2574.7s] gather here again in our 5,000. It's
[2577.0s] normal. No power, no Holy Spirit, no
[2580.0s] anointing, no move, nothing. And it's
[2583.7s] cyclical. We repeat it every Saturday.
[2586.8s] No wonder people are tired and they are
[2589.4s] checking out.
[2591.8s] If our church will make an impact, we
[2595.8s] need to rethink and strategize. How do
[2599.2s] we build and galvanize a movement?
[2604.1s] Do you recall the Arab Spring in 2010 to
[2607.8s] 2022?
[2609.5s] Young social media activists sparked
[2612.6s] political revolution across the Middle
[2615.1s] East and North Africa. And the result,
[2618.1s] you know, they overthrew regimes and
[2620.9s] redefined the relationship between
[2622.8s] youth, state and freedom. Youth led 2010
[2626.6s] to 2012.
[2629.8s] One smartphone, one tweet, one protest
[2633.7s] led by a generation disillusion, but
[2637.0s] they were determined.
[2639.1s] And our young people are seated in
[2640.6s] church. And sometimes we think they are
[2642.0s] too young, they can't do anything. Hear
[2643.8s] me loud and clear. Ellen White was 17
[2646.4s] years old. Uri Smith was 23 years. He
[2649.3s] became the editor of the Review and
[2650.7s] Herald. What is somebody talking about?
[2653.8s] Listen, sometimes I'm tempted to make
[2656.3s] some pronouncement. How can 80year-old
[2659.4s] men and women say a church 70% less than
[2663.0s] 45 years, they cannot lead themselves?
[2665.5s] Only the old must lead them.
[2668.9s] It doesn't make sense.
[2678.5s] Do you know of the Jesus movement in
[2681.2s] America in the late 1960s to the 1970s?
[2685.4s] The hippies and the counterultural youth
[2689.3s] turned to Christ in masses. It was
[2691.5s] called the Jesus movement. Go read about
[2694.2s] it. It spark evangelism, contemporary
[2697.8s] Christian music and youth ministries
[2700.2s] worldwide. disillusioned with war and
[2703.6s] materialism. The young people say, "We
[2706.2s] want to be warriors for Christ." They
[2708.6s] call it the Jesus movement. In our
[2711.5s] lifetime, have we witnessed a movement
[2714.6s] in your local church, in your local
[2716.2s] field, in your local congregation.
[2719.2s] It remind me of 1976, the Suetto
[2721.8s] uprising. A day student changed a nation
[2724.5s] and they change the world. It was a
[2726.2s] movement. Thousands of black students
[2729.9s] protested against apppeti, the
[2732.3s] educational policy, the the banttom act
[2735.9s] that wanted to make Africans a a medium
[2738.5s] of teaching. They fought it. Global
[2741.9s] spotlight came on appetite. The
[2744.6s] brutality it intensified the resistant
[2747.6s] movement which ultimately led to South
[2750.1s] Africa's independence. In the 90s, a
[2752.6s] group of students were determined and
[2756.2s] they changed the world.
[2759.4s] I can talk about
[2761.6s] the Tanaman Square protest in 1989 in
[2765.5s] China. University students, they called
[2767.9s] for democratic reforms.
[2770.6s] Though they were violently suppressed,
[2773.2s] it sent a global message about freedom
[2775.9s] and youth courage. In China, young minds
[2779.9s] became global symbols and the cost they
[2782.6s] are ready to pay for their freedom. It
[2785.0s] was a movement
[2790.9s] GYC
[2792.8s] not today's GYC was a movement
[2797.9s] what is masquerading today with the
[2799.4s] greatest of respect to GYC and its
[2801.2s] leaders we know those days when Dr.
[2803.9s] piping and the rest. It was a movement.
[2806.8s] We were in school. We could not sleep.
[2809.8s] Something happened. The tapes, the books
[2812.6s] and new Adventism started emerging. GYC
[2816.5s] from 2022 was a movement student led,
[2820.2s] student initiated, student executed.
[2822.6s] Today we are trying to do a revisionist
[2824.6s] approach to GYC. That is a matter for
[2826.4s] another day. But GYC was a movement.
[2837.6s] Hear me guys. Before heaven sent a
[2840.2s] people, he sent a picture.
[2845.4s] Movements don't happen in vacuum. Before
[2849.1s] God will ever send a group of people, he
[2852.0s] will always send a picture. I'm going to
[2853.9s] It's philosophical. I'll break it down.
[2855.5s] You see before heaven sends a people I
[2858.3s] repeat he will send a picture a picture
[2861.0s] here represent a vision
[2865.4s] before God releases a move he reveals a
[2869.1s] map anytime God wants to move in a way
[2872.2s] he will give a map to some people that
[2874.7s] must catch the vision
[2877.1s] the reason we can't see movement on the
[2880.2s] university campuses in the secondary
[2882.2s] schools and the rest of it our young
[2883.9s] people are just going to church. They
[2885.8s] come to church. They are at the back.
[2887.2s] They are playing with their phones. They
[2888.6s] sing sometime. They go back. Youth youth
[2890.8s] camp is more of the same. Parents are
[2893.5s] disillusioned. What do we do? No, we are
[2896.6s] dealing with a ministries. We need to
[2898.6s] transition to movements. And before
[2901.3s] movements are done, there must be a map.
[2905.0s] Before God will send a people for a
[2907.7s] project, there must be a picture.
[2913.0s] Another way I put it is you cannot have
[2915.6s] divine momentum without divine mandates.
[2920.8s] You cannot raise reformers without
[2923.4s] prophetic revelation.
[2926.4s] So you are attempting to transform
[2928.6s] campuses and it's just winding in
[2931.5s] circles. Do you know the reason why?
[2933.7s] Proverbs 20 29 verse 18 says where there
[2937.8s] is no vision
[2939.7s] the people perish. Do you know why we
[2942.1s] don't have a movement or we don't have
[2944.0s] movement emerging? Where is the vision?
[2948.8s] Where are the visionaries?
[2951.5s] Where is the picture?
[2953.9s] Where is the move of God? And where is
[2955.6s] the map that will collaborate with it?
[2958.2s] Temples and youth ministries are dying
[2961.4s] from a lack of people. They are not
[2963.5s] dying from a lack of people. I meant to
[2965.0s] say it's starving or they are starving
[2968.2s] from a lack of authentic vision
[2971.8s] and I say this with pain.
[2975.4s] I was born battered bred everything in
[2981.0s] SDA and I say this pathetically and
[2985.1s] sometimes people take offenses.
[2988.6s] Youth ministry is dying.
[2991.7s] Campus ministries are dying. How do we
[2994.6s] know? I gave you the data. 68% of
[2997.7s] Adventist young people, they they've
[3000.0s] stopped involving church. Nearly 70% of
[3003.4s] the 18 to 35 years old, they have
[3005.3s] checked out from our church. 40% of
[3007.3s] Adventist youth have left the church in
[3009.1s] their 20s. And there is a book why our
[3011.3s] teach our teenagers leaving the church.
[3013.1s] Only 37% are remaining. And the GC has
[3016.3s] authenticated. It says there is a
[3018.8s] crisis. So there is a problem. Nobody
[3021.8s] can debate it. The data says there is a
[3024.2s] problem.
[3025.8s] So why are movement not emerging? So
[3028.2s] this evening we are saying okay they are
[3030.6s] leaving. Why are they leaving? Because
[3033.2s] we are giving the ministries.
[3035.8s] We are not involved in movements and the
[3039.8s] movement is because we don't have a
[3041.8s] vision. So because there is no vision we
[3044.9s] can't we can't develop movements.
[3048.2s] We can't develop vision. We don't have
[3050.2s] the vision and movement because nobody
[3051.8s] has a burden. Nobody has a conviction.
[3054.7s] Where are the people with burden? Our
[3057.0s] young people will be lost for all
[3059.0s] eternity. Who is weeping and crying for
[3062.6s] a generation? Look, our church is
[3065.2s] largely
[3067.0s] illiterates.
[3068.8s] Largely
[3070.5s] majority of our members are illiterate.
[3074.6s] The data says about 97% of Adventists
[3077.0s] are among 93% of Adventists are among
[3079.7s] the lower classes of society. Now our
[3083.3s] children who have gone to university,
[3085.1s] they are leaving the church and we think
[3087.6s] it is normal. Look, it has economic
[3090.2s] implication.
[3092.5s] Our
[3096.0s] I wish I can say some things off camera.
[3098.2s] Hear me.
[3100.2s] If we do not stop the spiritual
[3102.2s] declivity, do you know what is going to
[3104.0s] happen in the next 30 years? Pastors
[3106.9s] cannot be paid because majority of
[3109.1s] church members will be unemployed.
[3111.4s] We're going to have a lot of poor
[3112.6s] people. It will take us 60 years to
[3114.9s] build church buildings
[3117.3s] because the intelligential, the working
[3119.2s] class, they are leaving. Why?
[3122.7s] We are giving the ministry not movement.
[3126.2s] Why are we giving the ministry not
[3128.0s] movement? There is no vision. Why is
[3131.1s] there no vision? We have not catch a
[3132.7s] glimpse of what God is doing or God is
[3134.4s] saying. And why? We don't have a burden.
[3137.6s] We don't have a conviction.
[3139.8s] And hear me loud and hear me clear when
[3142.1s] I say this. Look, Habacook was tired.
[3146.3s] Like all the things I'm narrating,
[3148.7s] Habacook became tired. He was so tired
[3152.1s] and he was angry with God. So he was
[3154.7s] burdened. He cried out with the
[3156.3s] question, why is evil driving? Why is
[3158.6s] the church silent? Where is the justice?
[3161.0s] Why are the people leaving Israel? Why?
[3163.1s] Why? Why? Habac became disillusioned
[3167.1s] just like today.
[3169.0s] Today's campuses are like Babylons.
[3172.2s] They are brilliant but they are broken.
[3176.4s] They are loud but they are lost. They
[3180.5s] are educated but they are empty. And
[3183.8s] guess what we are taking to them? Father
[3186.7s] Abraham has many sons.
[3190.5s] Are we mad?
[3193.0s] The people are brilliant.
[3197.0s] Extremely creative
[3199.9s] yet they are broken. They are loud yet
[3204.2s] they are lost. They are educated yet
[3207.5s] they are empty. And what are we taking
[3209.5s] to them? As if they are children class.
[3214.0s] I want to pronounce on this your pulpit.
[3216.7s] Our youth ministries curriculum or
[3219.4s] curriculara must be changed or revised.
[3224.2s] It might have used or exhausted its use.
[3229.9s] Can our young people in the youth
[3231.8s] ministry can they discover their their
[3234.1s] purpose of existence or they are only
[3236.6s] learning about ropes and and and
[3239.2s] consolation
[3242.2s] in an age of artificial intelligence.
[3245.0s] Look, when when Habacook was crying,
[3249.6s] they are brilliant, they are broken,
[3251.4s] they are loud, they are lost, they are
[3253.1s] educated, they are empty. Guess what?
[3255.3s] God did not give him a social media. God
[3257.8s] gave him one thing, vision. Habac
[3260.5s] chapter 2 verse 2-3. Then the Lord
[3262.9s] answered me and said, "Write the vision
[3266.3s] and make it plain on tables or tablets,
[3269.7s] that he may run that receipt, for the
[3272.2s] vision is yet for an appointed time, but
[3275.2s] at the end it will speak and it will not
[3277.8s] lie. Though it tries, wait for it
[3280.9s] because it will surely come, it will not
[3283.8s] tarry. In this, I see the principle that
[3287.9s] vision is God's way of announcing. I'm
[3292.1s] not done. I still have a plan. I'm
[3295.8s] raising someone. Anytime there is a
[3298.7s] burden, there is a conviction and we
[3300.6s] want to form movement for God's glory,
[3303.7s] God will send a vision. And a vision
[3306.0s] mean God is saying loudly I am not done.
[3310.6s] I am not an absentee God. I am still
[3313.4s] alive. I am raising somewhere. I want to
[3316.2s] fix the problem. The question is can New
[3319.8s] Life Church catch a glimpse of God's
[3323.3s] vision, God's move, God's map, God's
[3327.2s] picture for the people of this time.
[3331.9s] Vision is a preview of the future.
[3336.4s] in this.
[3339.4s] Oh Lord, give me give give me time. The
[3342.3s] the Bible says, "And the Lord answered
[3345.2s] me and said, write the vision." Do you
[3348.8s] know what vision
[3351.4s] is not an ambition? It's a revelation.
[3355.4s] Who told Habacook about the vision? Talk
[3358.0s] to me. Who told Habacook about the
[3359.8s] vision? It was God.
[3363.0s] It's not an ambition. I want to form a
[3365.2s] group that will be very powerful for
[3366.6s] God. No, no, no, no, no, no. A vision
[3369.8s] must be a revelation.
[3373.0s] It's not an ambition.
[3375.4s] No. Anytime an ambition is being pushed
[3379.4s] to transform into a movement, it will
[3381.4s] fail. Like what was said in the book of
[3383.9s] Act, if it is of the Lord cameo, it will
[3386.4s] stand. A vision must be a revelation,
[3390.6s] not an ambition.
[3392.3s] Number two, the Bible says, "And the
[3395.0s] Lord answered me and said, write the
[3397.3s] vision. Vision must be documented." So,
[3400.4s] let me put it in context to campus
[3401.9s] ministries so that you don't get it
[3403.4s] wrong.
[3405.0s] Who has given the vision that is being
[3407.4s] used to run Kenyata University?
[3412.2s] Who has given the vision that is being
[3414.4s] used to run University of Nairobi? Who
[3418.1s] has given the vision that has been used
[3420.1s] to run University of Ghana? Who has
[3423.1s] given the vision to run what is being
[3425.4s] done in University of Johannesburg? Who
[3428.4s] has given the vision that has been used
[3430.2s] to run University of Lagos? If it is a
[3433.8s] vision in a spiritual context, it must
[3436.6s] be what? A revelation.
[3440.6s] Has God revealed
[3442.9s] something to those engaged in youth
[3445.9s] ministry, campus ministries? Have we
[3448.8s] gone to God and bow in prayer? Lord, let
[3453.5s] us catch a glimpse of what you are doing
[3456.0s] in this last days or it is our ambition
[3459.4s] that we are using to drive. I announce
[3462.3s] based on the authority of God's word, it
[3465.1s] will fail.
[3467.1s] any ambition that we have spiritually
[3470.6s] flavor and converted and pushing at a
[3473.8s] divine vision it will fail.
[3478.0s] The vision must come from the Lord and
[3480.3s] from an Adventist perspective two major
[3482.6s] places. It must be Bible based it must
[3485.7s] be spirit or prophecy centered.
[3489.5s] You go to God through prayer with
[3492.1s] contrition, studying the Bible, it will
[3495.1s] emerge revival that sustains the world,
[3498.6s] change the world. They always come from
[3501.1s] a revelation through the word, not an
[3504.1s] ambition. Number two, a vision for our
[3507.8s] campus or for our church. You can do the
[3510.3s] application. It must be they say write
[3513.6s] the vision. In other words, my focus is
[3515.9s] not right. My focus is the definite
[3518.1s] article that prefix the vision. Vision
[3520.9s] must be definite. It must not be vague.
[3523.8s] So what are we doing on the campus? What
[3525.8s] is the vision? The the not a what is the
[3529.1s] vision? Is the vision for the campuses
[3532.3s] fake? Is it vague? Is it so large we
[3536.0s] can't even know what we want to do? If
[3538.2s] it is a vision, it must be definite. The
[3542.4s] prophet says, "And the Lord answered me
[3544.9s] and said, Write the vision. We speak to
[3549.1s] the pastors. We are going to the general
[3551.2s] conference session. We speak to the lay
[3553.7s] people. Anytime a vision must emerge for
[3557.4s] the world church, it must be definite.
[3560.8s] It must be a revelation from the word
[3564.3s] and the writings of Ellen Y. A vision
[3567.4s] must be definite, not vain.
[3571.1s] If you can't define it, you can't pursue
[3573.8s] it.
[3577.0s] A vision based on Habacok it says write
[3580.8s] the vision in this I see vision must be
[3584.1s] documented not just declared Africans
[3587.0s] don't document campus ministry did not
[3589.3s] start 10 years ago it started in Kenya
[3592.4s] long ago but because we don't document
[3595.8s] the move of God in Africa so everybody
[3598.6s] thinks we don't know anything everything
[3601.4s] they bring then we run at it Africans
[3604.1s] must When God gives us a vision, we have
[3607.1s] been doing outreach. Look at the growth
[3609.6s] of the church in in in your division.
[3613.0s] Unprecedented.
[3615.3s] Unprecedented.
[3617.4s] You are the backbone of Adventism in the
[3620.6s] world here in East Africa.
[3623.6s] Somebody must document it. It's not
[3626.6s] enough to declare. We are good at
[3628.9s] declaration. We need a group of
[3631.3s] students, a group of leaders, a group of
[3634.5s] young professionals who will document
[3637.7s] the vision and the move of God in our
[3640.4s] continent and in our churches, in our
[3642.2s] district, in our campuses. Will somebody
[3644.4s] not say an amen to that? While if it is
[3646.9s] a vision, it must be documented.
[3649.1s] Habacook says it's not just a vision
[3651.4s] that is revealed. It's not just a vision
[3653.4s] that is that is definite. It must be
[3655.8s] documented. Then he says
[3659.5s] write the vision and make it plain upon
[3663.3s] tablets or tables. In that is vision
[3668.1s] must be clarified
[3670.2s] and simplified not complicated.
[3674.1s] The reason why movement cannot emerge is
[3676.7s] because the vision even if it comes from
[3678.8s] God even if we document it is so
[3681.3s] complex.
[3683.2s] The Bible says how what? Make the vision
[3686.3s] plain.
[3688.2s] Let the old women know what it is. Let
[3690.5s] the old men know. Let the parents know.
[3692.9s] Why is campus ministry not funded? We
[3695.7s] have not explained it enough.
[3701.0s] If the vision is clarified, is
[3704.0s] simplified. What is the ripple? The
[3707.3s] ultimate ripple is watch it very
[3709.1s] carefully. that he may run that readeth
[3712.6s] it. So when the vision is not only a
[3716.1s] revelation, when the vision is not just
[3719.3s] documented, when the vision is not just
[3722.2s] definite, when the vision is not just is
[3725.8s] not just declared and if it is clarified
[3729.3s] and simplified,
[3731.2s] it says the vision must make those who
[3734.6s] read it, they must run. In other words,
[3738.7s] vision must spark agency and activate
[3743.6s] action.
[3745.3s] Whenever there is a vision, in my note
[3747.8s] here, I wrote,
[3749.8s] "If your vision doesn't make people move
[3753.9s] is just information,
[3757.3s] could it be
[3759.4s] that ministry or work on campus
[3764.2s] has become mere information? Why? Nobody
[3767.4s] is tickled. Nobody is moved. Parents are
[3771.1s] losing their children eternally. The
[3773.5s] children are being lost.
[3777.1s] Be it lost to gayism, lesbianism,
[3782.4s] occultism,
[3784.1s] yet there is nothing. They are no more.
[3787.0s] They are no more church members. We
[3789.5s] don't care. Is our vision making people
[3794.7s] have a sense of urgency?
[3799.0s] When
[3800.6s] a group of people caught division in the
[3804.2s] book of Acts, our Bible text,
[3807.3s] the apostolic church experienced
[3810.2s] something.
[3811.9s] 120 disciples in Acts 11:15 moved to
[3815.8s] 3,000 disciples in Acts 2. By Act
[3819.7s] chapter 4, it moved to 5,000. By Act
[3823.4s] chapter 5, it moved to more and more.
[3826.4s] You get to Act chapter 6, it is
[3828.7s] increasing. You get to Act chapter 9,
[3831.5s] they grew in numbers. You get to Act
[3833.7s] chapter 16, there was church planting.
[3836.2s] You get to Act chapter 21, there were
[3839.0s] many thousands. The Bible says, why?
[3842.4s] Somebody caught a glimpse of the vision.
[3847.1s] The vision that must drive campus must
[3850.2s] not just be a revelation. It must just
[3852.7s] not be definite. It must not just aside
[3856.6s] being definite, it must not just be
[3858.4s] documented instead of being declared.
[3861.1s] The vision must also be clarified and
[3863.9s] simplified. It must not be complicated.
[3867.0s] And we are saying it must spark urgency
[3869.8s] and activate action. And then the vision
[3874.1s] we are told God talking to the prophet
[3876.4s] says it's for an appointed time. Vision
[3879.0s] must be time bound not open-ended.
[3883.3s] Timing gives vision both relevance,
[3886.3s] excence and weight. So God wants to do
[3889.5s] something in three years. And that is
[3892.0s] God's timing for the vision. But we will
[3894.6s] be slow. We will move. By the time we
[3898.3s] get to it, God has moved on. The time
[3901.1s] the church they started using radio the
[3903.8s] church says they won't use radio in many
[3906.0s] part of the world. The time they started
[3908.6s] using television the church was hesitant
[3911.7s] on television. The time social media
[3914.3s] came many churches were even sorry we
[3918.5s] have moved to AI now that our church is
[3921.3s] thinking of live streaming. Now that we
[3923.4s] are mastering the live streaming the
[3925.1s] world is gone.
[3928.1s] We are always late.
[3932.2s] Every vision must have an appointed time
[3935.9s] bound. I wish I could say more. But
[3939.7s] ladies and gentlemen, let me jump and
[3942.5s] make it very clear. The reason we are in
[3946.5s] this quagmire
[3948.5s] is because look, the campus ministry has
[3951.0s] lost the script. Please, I'm not casting
[3954.0s] a doubt on any director. Far from it.
[3957.7s] I'm speaking just from a place of what
[3960.6s] it is.
[3963.0s] If I was a campus ministry director
[3965.0s] today, the results, the data from the
[3967.4s] world church is telling me God's will,
[3969.8s] your ministry you are leading has lost
[3972.4s] the script. How did we lose the script?
[3976.4s] You see,
[3980.2s] we have moved from missionaries to
[3982.3s] marketers.
[3986.4s] losing the gospel edge for popularity.
[3990.1s] This is the collapse of campus
[3991.4s] ministries. Our young people do not
[3993.0s] understand the spiritual ethos of campus
[3995.3s] ministries. Our musicians think it's
[3997.4s] just about vocal cords. No, it's a
[4001.0s] spiritual work. So, we have moved from
[4003.2s] missionaries to marketers. Church is not
[4007.3s] just about data. It's a spiritual
[4010.2s] movement.
[4012.2s] So, that without that we have lost the
[4014.6s] script.
[4016.2s] How did we lose the script? We've moved
[4018.3s] from training grounds to entertainment
[4020.8s] zones,
[4023.4s] overprogrammed
[4025.3s] and purpose. So many activities that is
[4028.1s] never leading to transformation or
[4030.2s] productivity. So the campus ought to be
[4033.5s] a training ground. Now what is it?
[4036.5s] Entertainment zone.
[4038.7s] Young people do not know what to do. So
[4040.2s] everybody wants to do music. Music
[4042.7s] music.
[4044.6s] Where were the days when people will
[4047.4s] pray when they lift up a song? Going to
[4051.3s] the end of the session right now. We are
[4053.0s] going to sing some two songs and then we
[4055.1s] pray. Immediately the training sees
[4058.1s] Ellen White says we need to stop doing
[4060.1s] too much preaching and do teaching.
[4064.4s] 68% of our professionals can't defend
[4067.6s] the Adventist faith. It's not a time for
[4070.6s] preaching. It's a time for teaching.
[4074.2s] It's not a time for entertainment. It's
[4077.1s] a time from training.
[4080.6s] We have moved from Daniel's thoughtful
[4083.0s] boldness to silence in Babylon. The fear
[4086.1s] of being different.
[4088.4s] Tomorrow I'm going to give a model.
[4089.9s] Ellen White in the book selected
[4091.8s] messages gave a model for campus
[4094.7s] ministries. I'll be dealing with that
[4096.1s] tomorrow. When you follow that that
[4098.2s] blueprint, you can't get it wrong.
[4109.5s] Guess what?
[4111.8s] Do you know
[4114.8s] that campus ministry started in the Old
[4117.3s] Testament?
[4119.7s] Let me give you some data.
[4125.0s] Look
[4126.6s] for the sake of time. There was a campus
[4129.2s] ministries in Bethl. 2 Kings chapter
[4133.4s] 2:3. I'll read it. There was a campus
[4135.8s] ministry at Jericho.
[4138.2s] 2 Kings 2:5. There was a campus ministry
[4141.3s] at Giela.
[4143.0s] 2 Kings 4:32. There was a campus
[4145.9s] ministry at in the hill valley of
[4148.3s] Ephraim. 2 Kings 5:22. All these were
[4152.6s] campus centers. Let me give you the
[4154.2s] text. So what we are talking about
[4155.6s] campus ministries please it's not a
[4158.0s] modernday thing the Bible says now the
[4160.9s] sons of the prophet who were at Bethl
[4163.8s] that was a campus 2 Kings 2:5 it talks
[4168.4s] about now the sons of the prophet who
[4171.1s] were at Jericho campus ministries 2
[4174.6s] Kings 4:32 it says and Elisha returned
[4178.4s] to Gilgar and there was a famine in the
[4180.7s] land now the sons of the prophet Gila
[4183.3s] there was a campus ministries there. 2
[4185.6s] Kings 5:22. Do you know there was a
[4188.5s] campus ministry? He says, "All is well.
[4190.9s] My master has sent me saying indeed just
[4193.8s] now two young men of the sons of the
[4195.8s] prophet have come to me from the
[4197.9s] mountain of Ephraim. Please give them a
[4200.9s] talent of silver and two ties of there
[4203.1s] was a campus ministry at the hill valley
[4205.1s] of Ephraim."
[4207.8s] And this this one you need to you need
[4209.8s] to take note of it. Before Elijah was
[4213.8s] translated, his focus was not just
[4217.6s] prison ministries. Was not just street
[4220.4s] ministry. It was campus. New life
[4223.0s] church. Hear me. Before Elijah,
[4226.5s] there was before he was translated.
[4229.0s] There was a campus ministries. Guess
[4231.4s] what happened in the campuses. This was
[4234.3s] what the students were saying. And it
[4235.9s] came to pass when the Lord was about to
[4237.8s] take up Elijah into heaven by a wild
[4240.9s] wind that Elijah went with Elijah from
[4244.5s] Gilgar. Then Elijah said to Elijah,
[4247.5s] "Stay here, please, for the Lord has
[4249.2s] sent me to Bethl." Now the sons of the
[4252.2s] prophet Kempus, who were at Bethl, came
[4254.6s] to Elisha and said to him, "Do you know
[4256.8s] that the Lord will take away your master
[4259.1s] from over you today?" And he said, "Yes,
[4261.0s] I know. Keep silent." Then Elijah said
[4263.9s] to him, "Elijah, stay here, please, for
[4266.2s] the Lord has sent me to Jericho. Before
[4268.6s] he was taken away, God sent Elijah one,
[4272.3s] the Lord has sent him to where all the
[4275.0s] campuses are. He was in Bethl. He was in
[4279.8s] Jericho. He was in Gilga. Before Jesus
[4284.2s] took Elijah away, his focus was not in
[4288.1s] the court of Ahab. It was around the
[4291.4s] campus. The campus if you ask me before
[4294.7s] we are translated into heaven. We need
[4298.0s] to build a movement of student on the
[4301.6s] campuses. Our pastors, our elders, our
[4305.3s] the people which means the
[4306.8s] professionals. If there is any place
[4309.4s] before we are translated, we need to
[4312.0s] push our resources it must be on the
[4315.2s] campuses. Somebody say an amen to that
[4317.1s] one. It is established
[4322.6s] in Acts chapter 7.
[4327.0s] See, we need deliverers
[4330.7s] who would deliver the world from sin.
[4333.9s] Guess who was used in in the Bible says
[4337.0s] Acts
[4339.1s] 22:3 and Moses was learned in all the
[4344.7s] wisdoms. No. Act 7:22 of the Egyptians
[4348.5s] and was mighty in words. Moses had PhD.
[4352.4s] Some believe he had two PhD.
[4356.0s] He was a compass product. We need people
[4360.6s] who will redeem the world. We need
[4363.8s] intelligential, the brilliant mind,
[4366.3s] apologetics, those who defend the
[4368.4s] doctrine of the century, the doctrine of
[4370.1s] the investigative judgment, the doctrine
[4371.9s] of of you name it. The all this our
[4375.3s] doctrine the doctrine the state of the
[4377.0s] dead healthy all these we need the Moses
[4381.0s] who will be learned in all the wisdoms
[4383.7s] of Egypt who will be mighty in words and
[4387.4s] deed temples
[4390.3s] another person who changed the world
[4392.9s] acts 22:3 I am a Jew born in Tasos of
[4397.0s] Cissia but brought up in this city I
[4399.9s] studied under Galileo and was thoroughly
[4402.6s] trained in the law of our ancestors. I
[4405.7s] was just as zealous for God as any of
[4408.7s] you are today. Paul says I am a product
[4411.7s] of temples. He was a PhD. No wonder he
[4415.4s] wrote to third of the New Testament. Who
[4417.7s] dares someone says that campus
[4419.9s] ministries must be an anx. The Bible
[4422.7s] says before Elijah was taken temples.
[4426.2s] Moses temples. Paul campus
[4432.0s] your church must make campus its ideal
[4435.6s] field
[4437.1s] in the whole of Nairobi if anybody is
[4439.8s] looking for a place campus when Paul saw
[4443.0s] the power of campus movement that's what
[4447.0s] happened the reason why people are not
[4449.2s] accepting the three angels messages is
[4451.3s] because we are failed on the campuses
[4455.4s] Paul says Act 19
[4460.3s] verse 20 verse 18 to verse 10. And he
[4463.8s] went into the synagogue and spoke boldly
[4467.4s] for three months reasoning and
[4469.5s] persuading concerning the things of the
[4471.0s] kingdom of God. But when some were
[4474.0s] hardened and did not believe, but spoke
[4476.9s] evil of the way before the multitude, he
[4480.2s] departed
[4482.5s] from them and withdrew the disciples,
[4485.7s] reasoning daily in the school of
[4488.8s] Tyrannius. Paul was preaching in the
[4491.3s] city of Nairobi and they were they were
[4493.8s] shouting at him. They were shouting.
[4495.4s] They refused to listen. So Paul knew the
[4497.8s] secret. He went to the University of
[4500.6s] Tyrannius and build a movement of
[4504.1s] students and guess what happened for two
[4507.2s] years. The Bible says and this continued
[4510.3s] for how many years? Two years. He was at
[4513.5s] the University of Tyrannos doing campus
[4516.4s] campus campus campus for two years. And
[4519.2s] the Bible says based on the movement of
[4522.1s] student Paul trained all who dwelt in
[4526.0s] Asia, they heard the word
[4530.6s] of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.
[4538.8s] I'll continue tomorrow.
[4542.6s] I end with this quote of Ellen White.
[4545.7s] Through the labor of students,
[4549.3s] people living in many cities may become
[4552.6s] acquainted with the truths of the third
[4555.9s] angel's message.
[4558.6s] Paul used it. If we want the everlasting
[4562.3s] gospel to thrive in Kenya, in Nairobi,
[4566.1s] where we need to put our money is the
[4568.6s] campus.
[4572.5s] Period. Before Jesus comes and we are
[4576.2s] translated like Elijah, our focus ought
[4579.8s] to be where the campus
[4584.6s] when people are resisting the gospel and
[4587.1s] when we preach they are not hearing.
[4588.8s] Let's go to the university. Let's train
[4590.7s] a group of student. Let's generate a
[4592.7s] movement of student sharp. They are good
[4595.6s] at research. They can defend the gospel.
[4598.2s] Let's train them two years. Send them
[4600.4s] out the whole of East Africa. They will
[4603.8s] hear the gospel. And Len White says
[4606.6s] through the labor, not of pastors,
[4610.3s] not of conference officials,
[4613.0s] students,
[4614.5s] people living in many cities may become
[4617.8s] acquainted
[4619.4s] with the truths of the third angel's
[4622.8s] message. Is it possible? Yes or no? Come
[4627.1s] on. Yes or no? Is it possible? Yes or
[4630.1s] no? Yes.
[4632.7s] Can we build a movement of students? Yes
[4636.2s] or no? Yes.
[4640.7s] If you are here this evening
[4643.5s] and you want to tell yourself,
[4648.6s] everybody can set aside commitment to
[4652.6s] campus.
[4654.2s] But by the grace of God, I want to
[4657.8s] commit to campus.
[4660.9s] I want you to join me.
[4664.0s] I want us to sing
[4667.2s] this song him.
[4671.0s] We know not the hour of the master's
[4675.0s] appearing. Yes. Signs all foretell
[4679.5s] that the moment is nearing. When he
[4683.1s] shall return, it is the promise most
[4686.1s] cheering. But we know not the ah. Do you
[4691.4s] know how to sing it?
[4693.6s] Can we sing it? As we sing this song and
[4697.2s] the musician is going to sing, you need
[4698.7s] to sing excellently.
[4703.0s] As we sing that song,
[4705.8s] if you are here or you are online, you
[4709.4s] want to make a commitment. Lord,
[4712.8s] this movement of students are not being
[4715.4s] built. I want to be one of the people
[4720.1s] who will commit to campus ministry.
[4724.7s] As we sing the first stanza and sing the
[4728.6s] refrain, as we sing the second, as we
[4732.5s] are singing the refrain, I want you to
[4734.9s] stand on your feet so that we whisper a
[4737.8s] prayer.
[4739.3s] Let's be seated and sing it. We know not
[4742.5s] the hour.
[4744.5s] 604.
[4747.8s] Those of you joining online, you join
[4750.2s] us.
[4758.9s] We know not the master's appearing.
[4766.3s] Yet signs,
[4768.6s] yet signs all fall. The moment is
[4773.2s] nearing. The moment is near when he
[4777.8s] shall return. When he shall return, it
[4782.0s] is the promise.
[4786.0s] But we know not the hour. This is why we
[4789.2s] must invest on campus. Anybody here who
[4792.2s] wants to commit to campus ministry, just
[4794.3s] stand on your feet. will come.
[4801.0s] I want to commit to support campus
[4804.7s] ministry.
[4806.3s] Don't stand because we say stand up.
[4809.7s] Stand because you mean it. He will turn
[4814.2s] in the clouds of his father's
[4818.2s] bright glory.
[4822.0s] But we know not the hour.
[4826.5s] Let's sing the second stanza.
[4833.5s] I want It's not a shallow commitment.
[4837.0s] Please, if you want to do your normal
[4838.9s] commitment, please sit down. I want to
[4841.6s] commit to campus ministries.
[4850.0s] who are seeking
[4852.1s] salvation.
[4855.6s] There's truth in the world.
[4859.8s] All the children
[4869.6s] to the great
[4871.6s] [Music]
[4876.2s] he will come.
[4879.5s] He will come.
[4882.6s] He will come. He will come.
[4888.5s] If you are online, just type I commit to
[4892.6s] campus.
[4894.9s] I commit to campus.
[4898.2s] Hallelujah.
[4900.3s] [Music]
[4905.1s] is full of glory.
[4909.4s] But we know
[4912.2s] [Music]
[4913.8s] we are. Let's sing the reference one
[4915.8s] more time. He will come.
[4918.9s] I want you to come forward. I want to
[4920.2s] pray with you. Just come here.
[4923.6s] I want to commit to campus ministry.
[4926.6s] Just come here. We want to pray right on
[4928.3s] this altar.
[4934.6s] We'll watch and we'll pray.
[4938.9s] We love streamed.
[4946.5s] I want to commit to campus. Just come.
[4953.3s] Just just walk and come. Don't feel shy.
[4955.1s] Just walk and come.j
[4957.2s] Rejoice
[4959.1s] every
[4960.8s] [Music]
[4969.5s] He will come.
[4971.8s] He will come. He will come.
[4976.2s] Let us watch him.
[4978.7s] [Music]
[4979.9s] He will come.
[4982.1s] He will come. Hallelujah. Please come
[4984.7s] closer. Hallelujah.
[4987.4s] Hallelu
[4991.7s] [Music]
[4997.0s] glory.
[4999.0s] [Music]
[5005.2s] The organist will be humming the refrain
[5007.1s] for us. N I say Nairobi. New life. Hear
[5010.6s] me loud and clear. My sister, God bless
[5013.0s] you with your daughter.
[5015.8s] Before Elijah was translated,
[5019.6s] where was he? Focused on mission campus.
[5023.5s] When people were repelling the gospel,
[5027.0s] Paul went to campus to build a movement.
[5031.0s] Ellen White says, "If the three angels
[5033.5s] message or messages will be heard, where
[5037.0s] must we focus campus?"
[5041.3s] No life. Every church can abandon
[5044.8s] campus. Not you.
[5047.7s] Not just the universities,
[5050.0s] primary school,
[5052.2s] secondary school,
[5055.0s] colleges of education,
[5057.4s] then the universities.
[5059.8s] Be intentional.
[5062.2s] Let your evangelism budget be there. If
[5066.6s] you are a professional, if there is a
[5069.3s] place you must concentrate your your
[5072.3s] your your resources, thank God for the
[5075.6s] villages. But this last days, if the
[5079.1s] villages will win, will be one for
[5081.1s] Christ. It must be a movement must
[5084.0s] emerge from campus. I'll say this on
[5087.0s] Sabbath.
[5088.9s] New life must begin to plan every year
[5093.4s] one crusade on one public campus.
[5097.5s] Every year as part of your strategy
[5101.5s] based on inspired writing, every year we
[5105.3s] will conduct a decent city flavored
[5109.3s] thoughtful wellplanned campaign on a
[5113.1s] university campus
[5115.2s] and we will build a movement. When there
[5118.4s] is a place you are to use your resources
[5120.8s] to encourage them, go to the
[5123.0s] universities.
[5124.6s] This is the work cut out for the last
[5127.1s] days. Let's bow our heads. Father in
[5129.8s] heaven.
[5133.4s] We could not finish tonight. A lot to
[5136.5s] unpack in one session.
[5139.4s] But thank you.
[5141.4s] We pray
[5143.2s] myself and my friends here and those
[5146.1s] online.
[5148.9s] The church is experiencing misplaced
[5151.0s] priorities.
[5153.2s] Campus
[5154.5s] hold the future.
[5156.7s] We can't do ministry. It must be a
[5159.8s] movement of students.
[5163.0s] Those of us here, we are enough.
[5166.2s] Enough to become missionaries of this
[5169.0s] ideal.
[5171.2s] Enough to trailblaze a new evangelism
[5175.4s] module on the campuses.
[5178.8s] We will carry our students along. We
[5182.3s] will arrest our students. It can be
[5185.4s] done.
[5187.1s] Bless our feeble steps of faith. Bless
[5191.3s] no life. Not many churches in the world
[5194.6s] are doing a week-l long program focusing
[5197.4s] on campus work. They have invested
[5201.7s] paid etics, hotel bills just that we
[5205.7s] will expose this ideal. Bless the
[5208.6s] pastors of this church. Bless the elders
[5211.4s] of this church. Bless their initiative
[5214.2s] in the city. They stand out as one of
[5216.9s] the few churches that are forwardlooking
[5219.9s] thinking about the campus. Bless them.
[5223.8s] And those of us who have committed to
[5225.4s] campus work, bless our feeble faith.
[5229.2s] Those of us watching online from West
[5232.7s] Africa, from North Africa, from the
[5235.8s] diaspora, from Central Africa, from
[5239.0s] Southern Africa, Lord, bless our hearts
[5243.2s] in our local churches. May we be
[5246.1s] ambassadors and missionaries of campus
[5249.4s] ministries.
[5251.0s] Bless the faithful pastors who are
[5253.5s] giving their all, who are struggling.
[5256.9s] Bless the student leaders. Bless the
[5259.8s] professionals who are sacrificing their
[5262.2s] means for campus. Lord, honor their
[5265.9s] faith. Tomorrow we are moving to the
[5269.5s] next level. Give us life and give us
[5273.4s] health. And by your grace, may every one
[5276.6s] of us here bring one person. And may
[5280.3s] every one of us online enlist one
[5283.0s] person. May God bless us. May God keep
[5287.0s] us. May the God of heaven who has set a
[5289.8s] vision for campus inspire us. May it not
[5294.4s] just be a ministry. May it be a movement
[5297.8s] and may we be part of it. So shall it
[5300.2s] be. For we have prayed today in Jesus's
[5304.1s] name. Let's somebody say an amen. God
[5307.6s] bless you.