Title: Lesson 13 || Images of the End || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: 6pDdQ5s_JoM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6pDdQ5s_JoM
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you so much for joining us today on this holy Sabbath day as we study the stud a Sabbath school lesson for this week, the last one for this quarter as well. We are super excited to have come this far with you and I praise God that you have been able to follow us. If you're joining us for the first time in this lesson study, please welcome. We will give you highlights at the end of what we have been able to learn through the quarter and I pray that you will be blessed. As we begin this study today, we are joined by two of my brothers. I would like them to introduce themselves and then we can go into the study today. Um, let me start with you, my husband. Uh, thank you. Uh, my name is Jafet Rono. A pleasure to be here. Thank you. My name is Enongo Rafa. It's a pleasure to be here. Amen. and my name is Jess Rono. Brother Rafael, kindly pray for us. Let's believe and pray. Our kind of loving father and master, we thank you and praise your name. Been with us faithfully throughout this quarter. And now, dear Lord, as we are looking at this last lesson once again, dear Lord, as you've guided us, may you guide us, open our minds, open our thoughts, and ultimately may you speak life to us. Is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. You know this week has been an amazing week of public campus ministry week and this Sabbath is public campus ministry Sabbath. I especially like this ministry because that is where I learned and I was trained how to preach the word of God. It had a great impact in my life. My first mission I attended because I went to a university church to a public campus and the ministries there are doing a tremendous work especially here in Nairobi. New Life Seventh Day Adventist Church supports such ministries um for our local campuses around. So if you're tuning in and you're from a public campus, you are most welcome for you to be able to see what other campuses are doing um around Nairobi and even outside Nairobi. I just want to just pause here and allow my brothers to just also speak of the impact of public campus ministry or what they think is the biggest highlight when they went I know they went to public campuses or what they what they think we can do to continue supporting these ministries. I'll start with you my uh thank you so much. I believe very strongly in u ministry that allows young people to go out and um fulfill the great commission going out to um as you're teaching and as you're ministering God is also ministering to you and even others around you are are ministering and you're fellowshipping together. It is always wonderful you know um uh Paul tells us evil communications corrupt good morals but on the other hand good communication like good company and a and a blessed holy company can really be a blessing for young people in this difficult path. So we praise God for that wonderful ministry. Amen. We praise God. The theme this week has been called, charged, commissioned. Brother Rafael, tell us about public compass ministry in your life. Indeed. Uh remember a quote from Ellen White from the book education which says with such an army of workers as our youth rightly trained might furnish how soon the message of a crucified risen and soon coming savior might be carried to the whole world. It's simply telling us that the youth have got great potential to really declare the gospel for the saving of souls and ultimately to usher in the second coming of Christ with power and with great glory. And so at New Life 7th Day Adventist Church is a vibrant uh public campus uh ministries targeting young people in tertiary um and uh uh levels tertiary institutions of education and and and it cuts across um uh Nairobi and even beyond. And it's a very vibrant ministry very powerful uh and very useful in the conversion of souls we see most. In fact, one of the greatest drivers for evangelism, I believe in this country and in our region is from public campuses. You see every every every end of the year and sometimes media when other people are going to celebrate their festivities, a group of young people decide to go out into the field for two to three weeks, sometimes even a month and they hold evangelistic and and as well as community services uh to unentered areas and ultimately leave those areas having planted churches. A very powerful ministry for the work of God. Amen. Amen. And New Life has not been um discussed seeing some of those blessings that we have seen. I in fact recently um through that work um New Life just baptized about um 20 plus um souls from um Kibra here, one of the slums here in Nairobi. And we praise God for the work that is going on. Some of you may ask, is it really possible for me to live a faithful life, a holy life following God in a public campus? Please tune in today and you will just be amazed with what God is doing in our public campuses. Amen. Back to the lesson. We have been studying this quarter illusions, images, symbols, how to study Bible prophecy. The symbols that the Lord has put in his word to enable us to be able to understand the deeper things of his word, especially as pertaining to those who will be living in the last days. It's been an exciting lesson as we have been looking at old truths in new light. As you have been looking at new truths and getting excited that indeed the Lord is assuring us he is about to come again. This week we will be looking at our last lesson images of the end. Images of the end. You know friends, when we started this lesson, there's one thing that we noticed from the beginning that the nations as they are will not always continue to be as they are. We talked um at length about the kings that have been set up in this world, they will not always continue to be there. That God is about to establish his own kingdom. The Bible tells us in the book of Hebrews chapter 11 that Abraham was a man who looked for a city whose builder and maker is God. The foundation set up by God himself. Hebrews 13 will write and say that we have no continuing city here. We are looking for a city yet to come. A city yet to come. But before that city comes, the Bible tells us that God is going to send several judgments to the world. And I want us to go back in history and we look at those things that were written for time for our learning so that we can understand the judgments that are going to also take place in these last days. Our key text comes from the book of Jonah chapter 1 verse 9. Um kindly read for us brother Raphael. Jonah 1 and verse 9 says reading from the New King James Version. So he said to them, I am a Hebrew and I fear the Lord the God of heaven who made the sea and the dry land. Um I think the story of Jonah is quite a famous story. Um in fact even those people who do who are not Christians really like the story of Jonah. Just the idea of a man that was was was in a big fish for three days and three nights um just gets people excited to just imagine the kind of God that we serve. Um let me just come to you and um for you to break um give us the background of Jonah by the time we are um before we come to the uh Jonah chapter 1 verse9 him describing the God whom he serves. tell us about the history of Jonah and what was his commission and and what are the lessons we have in this last days. Uh thank you so much. Um I think the story of Jonah even if it's very brief it's only four chapters. Uh and if you have not read the book of Jonah I strongly encourage just uh it'll take maybe 30 minutes to read and meditate and just think about it. Um uh uh uh uh yeah Jonah is actually a book that Christ himself referenced which is one of the things first of all that's very important you know whenever Christ references something already that's like you have to go back you have to go back to very important yeah when Christ says um as Daniel the prophet or whoth let him understand you you go back to Daniel and read it you know when Isaiah is referenced you go back to Isaiah and when Jonah is being referenced here we we go back and try and understand what Christ was talking about in Matthew chapter 12 from verse 38 to 42. This is what Christ said. Uh there were some Pharisees and their scribes who are asking master we would see a sign of thee and this is um it's not that Christ had never performed a miracle ever. It is actually unfortunately it is almost like they were seeking for gratification of their senses. Which is why Christ responded and said an evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign and there shall be no sign to give it except the sign of the prophet who Jonas for Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale. So shall the son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. And the men, that's number one. Number two, the men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation and shall condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah and behold a greater than Jonah is here. So think about that. Um there are some two lessons there that we can pick before I want us to pick another three lovely lessons from the story of Jonah. Number one, as Jonah was in the belly of the whale three days and three nights, so Christ said that he would be where? in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights that it was actually a reference to the cross right there. And someone may wonder, you know, how how how does the math work out? And that used to bother me a bit because we know that Christ died when on a Friday, correct? And then Christ resurrected on a Sunday morning. So it's like, wait, that's not three days and three nights. Christ was in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights from when he began um his great turmoil and where was that at Gethsemane and from that point on from that point on three days and three night three nights Christ was in the heart of the earth and it's interesting um correlation why was Jonah in the belly of the well why well h disobeyed God he had disobeyed God as a matter of fact it was almost an act of grace that God did not destroy him but saved him through a belly of a will. Yes. But on the other hand, why was Christ in the heart of the earth? Because of this our sins. Our sins. So wonderfully, even if h Christ almost received from in fact did in fact receive unto himself sins that were not even his own that he might suffer but that we might be saved. Amen. So that's number one. Lesson number one. Lesson number two is the lesson of the judgment. And it's actually in the three I would say sublessons that we find in the life of Jonah. Jonah was a reluctant prophet. He was going to preach to a people who are a sinful people. They are Assyrians. This is something that you should go and study for yourself. And you realize that the Assyrian people were not a good people. They're not nice people. The people who are living in Nineveh. And so when Jonah initially felt that he should not go and preach that message, he felt a feeling that sometimes you and I can feel when you look down upon others and say, "Ah, this one is lost, a lost case and a lost cause." But in the book of 1 Timothy 1:15, how does Paul Paul who we know is um the Apostle Paul who we know God gave a a a extra measure of the Holy Spirit. Yeah. uh who we know wrote so many books of the scriptures. Paul himself, how does he describe himself? He says, "I was the chief of sinners." First Timothy chapter 1 verse 15, Paul says, "This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance, acceptation, that Christ came into the world to save sinners of whom I am chief." So when we think that others don't deserve it, the message of salvation, realize that also us, we don't deserve it either. Romans chapter 3 23 it says what? Um, for all have sinned, uh, Romans 3:23, it says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So lesson number one, that's subless number one under the general message of the judgment. uh in the life of Jonah, you and I, the reason why we're going to give that message is because that message was given to us as well. And so God is allowing us like Jonah to participate in the me in in the giving of this message even despite how deplorable and despicable we think the people are to whom we are giving that message. Go on anyway. That's lesson number one. Lesson number two, we have to realize that Jonah when he was being um it's actually the the memory text that we read. So he said to them, I am a Hebrew and I fear the Lord, the God of what? Heaven, who made the sea and the dry land. So we have a very strong connection to what that the God who is sending Jonah is actually the God of creation. Similarly in the last days, Similarly in the last days, Revelation 14 6 and 7, we have a a a very deep connection between uh the message being sent, the gospel. We are told it is the everlasting gospel. Revelation 14:6 and we are told verse 7, saying with a loud voice, fear God and give glory to him uh h for the hour of his judgment is come and worship him that made heaven and earth and seas and the fountains of water. And especially is this found within the only commandment that highlights this very special fact, the Sabbath commandment. So a a God is is is having us appreciate and never disconnect that special connection between God as the creator and the message that he's giving us to send to his people. That's lesson number two as I was reading. And then lastly, lesson number three is that message that Jonah was giving to Nineveh to the Assyrians. Similarly, God is giving us a message to uh uh you could say because uh there's a connection. The Babylonians came out of Assyria. So, in a sense, God is giving us a similar message to spiritual Babylon. Revelation chapter 14, sorry, chapter 18, reading verse 4. It says, "I heard another angel um another voice from heaven saying, "Come out of Babylon, huh, my people, and be not partakers of our sins, that you receive not of her plagues, that we should not shy away from giving this very difficult and painful message, a message that the whole world must repent." Amen. The reason why sometimes we even have struggling with issues even social issues in this world even in this country and any any single other place to which um we would inhabit um and we find sin everywhere is because people are unwilling to preach a message that requires repentance. The message fear God and give him glory is a message pointing to God's commandments to obedience and to a call for us to repent. In fact, the message of John the Baptist was what was a message of repentance. For the kingdom of God is at hand at hand. And even Christ, we told he continued giving that similar message of of repentance. And God is calling upon us to very boldly preach this message of repentance. Come out of her, my people. My people. You know, in the book of Jonah, chapter 4, um allow me to just read verse um two. Jonah gives us um additional details of what he was thinking when he was being reluctant. Yes. Why he was scared to go to Nineveh. And it touches very closely to the last point which you give. Um and I like that you really broke down this into three um very um clear points that we can follow. And the Bible says in Jonah 4:2 it says, "And he prayed unto the Lord and said, I pray thee, oh Lord, was not this my saying?" He's like, "Aren't this not the things that I was saying? I knew this. I knew this would happen when I was yet in my country. Before when I before I left, therefore I fled before unto Tashish. Why? For I knew I knew that thou had a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentst thee of the evil. Jonah had such a beautiful understanding of the character of God, but he was so scared to go. As you said, he was so scared to preach this message because he knew God, these people will repent and God is going to do what? God is going to cover their sins and he's going to forgive them. And then Jonah was so scared that he's going to look like a liar. And are there some of us who when it comes to the preaching of the gospel, we are we pride and we we care so much about our reputation more than we care about the people that are going to be saved. That was the case of Jonah. He he he he he he lifted up himself and thought his reputation was too dear to him than that of another soul. Some maybe you've been called to go and give a pamphlet somewhere and you're like ah these people will start perceiving me you know I'm the I'm probably their boss in the office you know I'm probably Mr. So and so I cannot just walk around here and said that my reputation will be injured. You know I don't want to be associated with this weird seventh day adventist church ex we have a very distinct message a very a message that is very different from what the world is preaching and then you go and tell them Babylon is fallen and some of your friends are in Babylon. You're like ah my reputation is too dear for me. You know the book Steps to Christ says that some of us have made reputation our idol. That was the case for Jonah. He his reputation was too dear than that of the souls he was called to save. Um brother Raphael just give us the context of of of Nineveh where Jonah was called to go and preach. Who were these kind of people? What are the some of the scenes that these people were participating in? And what was Jonah's message and how can we draw lessons for us today living in the last days? Indeed, um the Bible records in Jonah chapter 1 and verse two that uh he's told by God, arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness is come up before me. The Bible is telling us that Nineveh wasn't like a righteous city. It wasn't a street that was known for for for for good things, but it we are told that their wickedness and you could imagine all manner of weakness wickedness that um that tends to call God to make judgment. It's almost a I would compare Nineveh to uh Sodom and Gomorrah. I would I I'd reckon that almost similar things were playing out. Idolatry uh as you said, an evil and uh and adulterous generation. uh that that that was seeking signs and all manner of things. But eventually um the Bible records Jonah is given this message and he's told to cry out in Jonah chapter 3 and verse4 and he's crying out and he's saying what he says his message is yet 40 days and Nineveh shall be what? Nineveh shall be overthrown. And so um he preaches this message, a very heavy message, a very uh a message of warning. And this is everything. This is all that he preaches. But then the Bible records the response of the king and and of the and of the people uh there. And in it is recorded in verses 5 to 10. And I just like to highlight a few things. Verse 5 tells us, "The people of Nineveh believed God, you know, and they proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth with the greatest of them, even to the least of them." And it tells us that this revival began with who? With the king. Bible records, "And the and for word came unto the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne. He put away his robes and he covered himself with sackcloth and he sat in ashes and he made a decree that not even the animals were to enjoy to drink water or to test anything you know but all were to prostrate themselves before God and they were to seek seek his face. Amen. Jonah's message was a message of doom. He said 40 days and he never will be destroyed. But we respon's message was a message of repentance. No, Jonah went and said 40 days Nineveh is going to be destroyed. But we see that having perceived this message in their hearts they were pricricked and they responded what? They sought what? They sought repentance with God. And that's a powerful lesson for all of us. You know sometimes just because the message that we are receiving from the preacher, the message that we're receiving from from from scripture or from wherever we we we we we are receiving messages from God um uh whatever avenue or channel it comes in and how it is phrased does not mean that the door of mercy has been closed. As long as God is sending uh God is knocking at our hearts, God is God is sending messages, there is always that possibility that repentance is possible. Amen. and and and therefore we shouldn't be afraid by messages of doom, hard messages. You know, sometimes we we we as a people ask preachers to to to give us a soft message, you know, but Jonah on the contrary, you can see he was a he was a prophet on a mission. Both the mission of God and also his own personal issues that he wanted to to sort out. But nonetheless, we see regardless of how the message was packaged, regardless of how the the wording of the message, the the people of the people of Nineveh from the greatest to the least of them responded with an attitude of repentance. I think that's a very very powerful point because sometimes you know we sit down and we say ah that person was too harsh in the delivery and for sure they were probably harsh they should have done a better job but whe harsh or not harsh did they speak the truth? Yes. Yeah. Very powerful. Ultimately all messages should be framed in the context of the character of God. You see as you read to us uh in chapter 4 and verse two eventually Jonah himself says he knew the character of God. He knows what what type of God he is that he is what a gracious God merciful slow to anger and of great kindness and it and repenteth thee of evil. And so to us today, my brothers and my sisters, the message of Jonah comes and and we are told in the context of the three angels messages in Revelation um um and also ultimately in Revelation 18 and verse4 where a loud cry is heard from heaven from God himself. And he's saying what? Come out of her my people and do not be partakers of what? Of her sins, lest you receive of her plagues. The message preceding all that is speaking about the destruction of Babylon. But ultimately the children of God will be able to hear the the call of God asking them to move out to move out of this situation. And so it's simply telling us that the declarations of God to a certain extent are conditional that God is not does not send us truth to embarrass us. God does not send us truth to to to to ridicule us and to put us down and to tell us that we have made mistakes and lo and behold the consequences are coming. You know, I remember um when we were young and we we used to watch wrestling, there's a way uh you know like a tough guy is coming and you know by the music he plays and I remember there used to be another guy who's uh referred to as a moary attendant and there's some ominous music and and even his opponents will know he's coming you know and and for a fact they're going to get a whooping. God doesn't approach us like that, you know, and whenever we hear the messages of God, there is always room for us to do what? To be made right together with him. In uh in Deuteronomy 30 and verse 19, God says, I call heaven and earth to record this day against you that he has set before us what life and death, blessing and curse. And then he says what? Therefore, choose life that thou both thou and your seed may live. He continues elsewhere and he says um that when he when in relation to the truth and to the messages that we receive sometimes devoid of the messenger in John chapter 3 and verse 17 it says for God sent not his son into the world to do what? Not to condemn the world but rather that the world through him might be saved. So when you're receiving a message from a prophet from from from from any avenue of God, let us understand the character of God and let us understand these messages with their conditions. The Bible records and um and the sister white records in the book prophets and kings page 271 that their doom was averted. The God of Israel was exalted and honored throughout the heen world and his law was what? Was revered. Not until many years later was they never to fall prey to the surrounding nations. Why? Through forgetfulness of God and through boastful pride. We see eventually they were they were restored because of how they responded to the message. In this last day we have the three angels messages. We have the foretelling of the cast the the bringing down of Babylon and all and all of its relatives, all of all of the systems that are that are pertaining to it and that surround it and and that support it. But ultimately God says come out of her my people. In Revelation 14:12 he tells us that indeed there will be a people who will respond yes to the call of God. And who are these people? What what will be their identifying mark? They keep the commandments of God and have what? The faith of Jesus Christ which is what the spirit of prophecy. And so these are images of the hen of the end as the lesson is uply as uply uh titled this week. These are images of the end. Amen. Amen. Amen. Very wonderful. You know, someone might be saying, oh, you know, um, God did not destroy Nineveh. He destroyed Nineveh way later. So, this message we are saying that it it's the similar to the message of the first angel's message like Jonah, we are going to preach to Babylon. Um, so maybe maybe I can just stay in Babylon. Maybe Babylon will also repent and and God will not will be merciful. Haven't you said that God is merciful and he will repent of his evil? I mean, we'll repent of evil. So, maybe God will repent of the judgment that he has actually um um um cast against um Babylon and it's okay. I'll just I'll probably be saved in my sins. Let's just chill in Babylon. You know, it's true. Uh but then you see we must also um um interact with God in accordance with the way that he has with the way he has uh he has revealed himself. You see God himself is actively speaking. In fact if you if you look at Revelation 18 and verse4 that this this voice actually comes from the throne of God and it says what? Come out of her my people and do not what? Do not share in her sins. Uh yes. And uh lest you do what? Lest you receive. You see when when when when Jonah comes and says Nineveh, you'll be destroyed. That's the message of God. But now the revelator comes to us and speaks to us in our time and in our and in our generation and is saying that the destruction of Babylon is sure. That is that is that is a given there that Babylon has filled of the has has has filled the cup of probation. There's no there's no more mercy. There's nothing more that can be extended for Babylon. Babylon is like a train that has that has run out of control and is off the tracks and it's going to it's going to crash. What God is saying is for those of us who are in this train, come out of her before it is too late. He has provided yet another chariot. He's provided yet another ship, even the old ship of Zion, that shall safely take us to Haraba. And therefore, the destruction of Babylon is not conditional. That one is unconditional. It is written in scripture. But the salvation of men, that one is conditional depending on how we respond. Will we respond yes to the mark of God or will we respond yes to the mark of the beast? Those are the questions, images of the end that are echoed through the story of Jonah. Amen. Amen. Please don't stay in Babylon. God did not say come out of Nineveh. He told Nineveh to repent for Babylon, he's very clear, come out of her. I would actually add um if it could be that Babylon repented then as God said I think it's in Jeremiah chapter 18 where he says that to a nation that umh if I have said one thing and will bring judgment to the nation by the nation changes then I will repent and vice versa. If a nation was being righteous and I was I said I would bless them and then they change their ways but then we just know that um ultimately it will not happen. But if they did, if Babylon repented, 100% God would keep his word in the scriptures. That is the character of Abra. Yeah. Babon will not repent. I think it's similar to the story of um in Genesis 15:16 when God is telling Abraham that the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full. And for sure when God was about to destroy the Amorites whatever it didn't matter what the Amorites did so long as the iniquity God had given them years of probation years over 430 years and they never repented. God eventually destroyed them. Yeah. Let me read Jeremiah 18 from vers 7 to verse 10. At what instant I shall speak concerning a nation and concerning a kingdom to pluck up and to pull down and to destroy it. If that nation against whom I have pronounced turn from their evil, I will repent of the evil that I thought to do unto them. And at what instance I shall speak concerning a nation on concerning a kingdom to build up and to plant it, that's to bless it. If it do evil in my sight, that it obey not my voice, then I will repent of the good uh wherewith I said I would benefit them. So h God's h um God is actually very fair and very reasonable as he said there. But then again, uh Babylon will not unfortunately will not um receive that very gracious opportunity. And that's that's why God's people are being told come out of Babylon. That ship is sinking. Just um come out of it. And this is a very good segue for us to go back to ancient Babylon and understand how ancient Babylon fell. You know, by the way, God sets up kings and God God pulls them down. God set up King Nebuchadnezzar, a proud king. But it was God's intention to use the hand of Nebuchadnezzar to lead the children of Israel into Babylon, into captivity. And Nebuchadnezzar being a proud Babylonian pagan king, he did not rever God. He did not rever God. He did not honor God. But eventually God humbled this proud king. As a matter of fact, we know that towards the very end of his life, it is recorded in the book of Daniel um chapter 4. Let me read from verse um verse 37. One of the some of the words that Nebuchadnezzar himself proclaims. He says, "Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the king of heaven." God gave him an opportunity to know him through the the Hebrews who had come to his palace through Daniel who had come to work in his palace. God I mean the God revealed himself to Nebuchadnezzar and he says I honor the king of heaven. All whose works are truth and his ways judgment and those that walk in pride he is able to abase. He eventually served the king, the true king, the creator of the heavens and the earth. Was it so with his um um the generation that followed him? The Bible says no. We know of a man called Belchazar. Belshazar who was a grandson of Nebuchadnezzar. One day when he was reing and he's partying, he called a party in the book of Genesis chapter 5. And this man lifted up in his pride while his grandfather honored this God. And Belshazzarah has had known this. Actually in the book of Daniel chapter 5, Daniel eventually speaks to him. And and in verse 20, he says, "You knew of this God. You knew because your father honored this God. Then your grandfather honored this God, but you have chosen to despise this God." In an act of pride when he had just tasted the wine, he says, "I just want to show the children of Israel that I have defied everything including their own God." And in defiance to God, he takes that which is sanctified, that which is sacred, that which is meant to be holy, and he mixes it with that which is unholy. The last act to tell God, I do not care, right on your face. That same day judgment came upon the house of Babylon and Babylon fell in one night because of the pride of one king. It is then that it is recorded that as as as he was confused and when he was reing and he's parting the handwriting the handwriting came writing on the wall that judgment has come to Babylon that day. This man confused unable to interpret it. The queen suggests why don't you call this man called Daniel? He was he rever God. He knows God. All the astrologers had failed. Everyone had failed to interpret the writing on the wall or and Daniel came and interpreted it. And Daniel made it very clear actually. Let me just read um the book of Daniel chapter 5. The writing on the wall it says many many that God has numbered thy kingdom and finished it. God has reviewed the records of Babylon. God has taken a keen account of everything that you have been doing, O Belshazar, and you have been weighed in the balances. And what has been the verdict? You have been found wanting. And tonight, thy kingdom is divided and will be given to the Mids and the Persians. And for sure, Babylon fell that night. You know it is interesting um to to to know that Belshazar himself was slain the same night. The man who defied God. The man who defied God. That is the history of of of Belshazar and how um Babylon was destroyed. I just want to come and turn to you and for you to break it down for us to just give us details of um the mechanics of the destruction of of Babylon. have given the history. Tell us now how exactly did Babylon fall and how can we relate it to the fall of the of the spiritual Babylon in these last days. Amen. Amen. So uh uh uh actually it's a historical record. There was um one of the historians called Heroditus and um um who was writing down what was described which actually you can find um when we actually go through the next uh lesson which is the lesson Cyrus will actually see much more clearly what is found here that the destruction of Babylon came at a time when they were first of all at a time where they were not expecting in a manner that they were not expecting at all because um Babylon was constructed such that it had some of the thickest walls like you could actually have chariots side by side running like they could actually have races on top of the you know sometimes maybe you like people may misunderstand me friends uh the walls were so thick that you could have chariots actually having a race and competing on like on the top of the wall that's how thick the walls were and the inside of Babylon was well watered by what there was actually the great river Euphrates that actually flowed right in the middle of the Babylon. So Babylon was actually first of all it it it had very strong walls supposedly impregnable. Number two, it had a mighty river that supplied for it and then because of the mighty river that supplied Babylon Euphrates, they were actually able to have like basically a kind of like mini irrigation system basically a form of sustenance that could actually keep them during periods or even of of um um extreme periods. So for instance a siege you know like if there are nations that are trying to destroy them sack the city and sack the city they establish armies around around it. Unfortunately, you can't, you know, because how a siege normally happens is that you're trying to do what? To deplete the resources until people try, especially food and water. Food and water. And then people now they give up and they say, "Okay, fine. We give up. We will open the gates. We will surrender and then you will take, you know, and you like you you at least you'll spare us, you'll give us food." But Babylon are like, "No, like we can stay here for like years and by then either we'll get our allies. It's a self-sustaining city pretty much." Yeah. So, but then what we find here is that that which they assumed was their object of greatest support and strength was actually the point of weakness. We are told here by Heroditus, those that lived in the center of Babylon had no idea that the suburbs had fallen for it was a time of festival and all were dancing and indulging themselves in pleasures. That kind of sounds like what you've just described actually it because in the book of Daniel chapter 5, we actually find what? a bash, you know, a a a great party, like a very illustrious one. And around that particular time that is when um uh Cyrus who was the the one who was laying siege on Babylon at that time he uh supposedly and this is like one of those you know it's a story and uh we we can hope that maybe this is true or not um Bosephilus which is his horse died there and he was very angry that his favorite horse had drowned and um in Ephrites and so he he told his people to do what to divert the river. Another story is that uh Cyrus had also heard of the idea of diverting the river from somebody else who had diverted the rivers for other reasons of irrigation. Um but the end result is that Cyrus diverted the rivers and and once the rivers were diverted that um path that was uh used to supply water into the city was actually a nice nice tunnel for armies to actually go and what to go and attack. And that's actually what we find in the scriptures. Daniel chapter 5:18. As that is going on outside the city, Daniel is actually giving a prophecy uh sorry, a fulfillment of prophecy to Nebuchadnezzar, no to Belshazza, um the grandson of Nebuchadnezzar, we find in the book of Daniel chapter 5:E 18, it says, "Oh thou king, the most high God um gave Nebuchadnezzar thy father a kingdom and majesty." And verse 20, when his heart was lifted up and his mind hardened, he was deposed from his kingdom and they took his glory. And he was driven from the sons of men until he knew verse 21, the most high God rules in the kingdoms of men, and that he appoints over it whomsoever his will. And verse 22 is actually the clincher. And thou his son Belshazza has not humbled thine heart, though thou kneest all these things. That was actually the clinch. So he was not an ignorant. He's not ignorant. He knew these things. In fact, like um you I know you and I have called Belshazza the grandfather, the grandson of of Nebuchadnezzar. But in the in the book of Daniel, what is Nebuchadnezzar actually called? He's called the father. He's called the father. No, but the margin actually does it says fore father. Yes. Yes. But the the reason why he's also called like the father is um is actually because of what? Because the character was of a similar nature. That kind of pride was also there in Daniel chapter 4 was actually there in Nebuchadnezzar. But Nebuchadnezzar at least learned a lesson. Humbled himself and yeah and humbled himself. He had that nature. Um unlike Nebuchadnezzar, sorry. Um unlike Bshazza, there are actually four lessons I want us to draw and the fourth actually will will bridge us to the the very last lesson from all this because uh the same way in the book of revelation chapter 16 we find another city a city that is called Babylon. Revelation 16:12 we find um another city Babylon and something similar happens to that city called Babylon. We are told when this city called Babylon is being destroyed and receiving judgments from God, the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates, that river that was supplying Babylon, and the waters of it were dried up that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared. So in the h in the literal city once uh h the river was dried up, the way was prepared for the armies of what? The kings of the east who were Cyrus. And I saw three and clean. Okay, let's um um uh jump actually that's actually the main part that I wanted to focus on the the very quickly the four lessons I want us to learn is number one both Babylons were blasphemous powers you actually h described how they went and they took uh all of the cups and all the vessels from the temple of God to use in a bash to try and celebrate mixing the sacred with the profane very terrible sin yes and that's precisely what Babylon also does The spirits of Babylon it is called it has uh names of blasphemy history. Yeah. And names of blasphemy upon its forehead. Number two, both of them were sitting and were supplied with many waters. Revelation 17:1. We are we are told and there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials and talked with me and said unto me, come hither. I will show thee the judgment of the great harlot who we find who sits upon many waters. many waters the same as the literal Babylon. But here spiritually we are told the waters are what? Verse 15. And he said unto me, the waters which you saw where the whole the seats are peoples, multitudes, nations and tongues. So that means that the judgment in the end to spiritual Babylon will be to remove its spiritual it its support system and it shall actually be dry. What it thought was its um source of strength. Babylon receiving strength from the support of the people that support will be dried up and the way we shall be prepared for the king of the east of the east. Number three, the destruction was sudden. It isn't that that um e h they knew that on this particular day Babylon is being destroyed. They assumed that they would last there forever. And h in fact the reason why the king acted like that we are told that the king's knees smote one against another in Daniel chapter 5. Similarly for the destruction of of this world and and and the judgment that shall come upon spiritual Babylon. We find Christ speaking through his prophet uh Paul in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 verse 2 and verse three. We are told um the day of the Lord so comes at the as a thief in the night when they shall say peace and safety sudden destruction sudden destruction can come upon us all. And then number four, the nice segue that I want to bring us uh to uh the next section is that once the h the rivers were dried up, what happened? The way was prepared for who? The kings of the east. The kings of the east. And who are the kings of the east? None other than Cyrus and his army. And his army. Amen. Amen. A few lessons to pick up here just very quickly. Don't mix the the sacred and the profane. God has said separate this and that. Separate it. And what a terrible way to die in reveling parting which is the spirit we are seeing in this world today that we are not pausing to watch and pray not watching and praying then sudden destruction will come. And then Belshazar was surprised. Was he surprised because he did not know these things? No. He had been warned. He knew of these things. I pray that you and I will not be surprised. tell us of the kings of the east that now eventually enter Babylon. Indeed, um we are eventually told that evening uh Babylon actually fell and the king that was leading um um the Mids and the Persians uh was a Persian king. The Mids and the Persian was a broad-based government to use a term that is uh uh um that is quite common in this country at this particular point. And so uh they were led by a gentleman called Cyrus. And under Cyrus one historian by the name of Tom Holland writes uh in the in the book Dominion uh says under Cyrus the Persian Empire became the largest in history with what uh the largest conglomeration of territories that the world has ever seen. But then what one thing that is unique about Cyrus is that if you look at scripture and um and and we go with the theme of this week which is images of the end then we realize that Cyrus is almost to a certain extent a type of Christ. How is he a type of Christ? We see Cyrus eventually as many Persian kings and many kings before after him uh eventually got names. He was known as what? The great king or the king of kings which is almost close to blasphemy but uh nonetheless uh is still almost a type of who Christ is indeed the true king of kings and the lord of lords and the greatest of all kings. And so we see um Cyus is a type of Christ in that he mirrors what Christ would do in the end for his people is what Cyrus did for the people of God. How is it? So we see Cyrus himself comes from what? comes from the east. The same way we are told towards the end uh Christ comes where? A cloud coming where? From the east, you know. And so we see Cyrus himself comes from the east. Beyond beyond that, we see he wages war against Babylon. He wages war against Babylon. And and and as a result of that, he liberates God's people. Beyond that, Cyrus's own birth and place was prophesied. You know, like Christ in Isaiah 45 and verse one, Cyrus was a child of promise. Was a child who had been God himself calls him what? My anointed, his anointed and my shepherd. My shepherd. And so you see there are so many um so many correlations that we can we can make between the type of Cyrus and Christ as the antitype. He comes from the east. He wars against Babylon and he liberates God's people. After say the 70 years, it is Cyrus who gives a decree in the book of uh 2 Chronicles chapter 36 and verse 23. He says uh he charges the people to go and to do what? To go and to rebuild the house of God in Jerusalem. And so um we see he is indeed a type of Christ. He campaigns against Babylon. uh his the same way Christ says his enemy the enemy of the church in these last days is what Babylon and her and and the industries that she has built. Ultimately Cyrus brings down Babylon the same way Christ when he comes he shall bring down Babylon. An interesting fact we're told to consider is actually the last book of the Old Testament is supposed to be 2 Chronicles chapter 36 because it is the one that's now speaking about them having left uh having left uh Babylon and they're rebuilding and it's it's talking about um uh them being set free and so ultimately you know because the Bible was composed by a group of scholars. The last book of the Bible nowadays is Malachi. But the original order of the Old Testament books uh in our day has been changed. But originally this is where the Old Testament ended with the declaration from Cyrus. What is the declaration? Perhaps indulge me to read it. It says, "All the kingdoms of the earth hath the Lord God of heaven given me, and he hath charged me to build him an house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all his people? the Lord his God be with him and let him go up. That the Old Testament ends not with the children of God in bondage but rather with a savior uh having come and then the New Testament begins with now where the type meet the antitype. We see Christ now moving in the streets of Jerusalem and declaring uh the salvation of all mankind. We're called to compare the attitude of Cyrus with that of Nebuchadnezzar. We see Cyrus says what? He acknowledges that the his dominion and his power, this anglomeration of territories, the greatest, the largest ever in history, yet he says what? It is the Lord God of heaven that has given these things to me. Amen. And he has charged me to build him a house. Compare with Nebuchadnezzar in uh in in in in Daniel chapter 3. We see uh Nebuchadnezzar asking for worship. We see Nebuchadnezzar being pompous and proud. We see Nebuchadnezzar eventually the Bible records that Nebuchadnezzar had to be humbled and God made him do what? Eat grass. Nebuchadnezzar was made to eat grass like u in in Daniel chapter 4, you know, where he raises up his voice and and and and and he says, "Is this not Babylon the grass that I have built?" that I have built you know and he has done so many uh many other things there therein and so it's speaking to us that indeed to a certain extent we can see images of the end as we consider the life of Cyrus and the work of Christ Amen. Amen. Amen. What a beautiful way to end this with the Christ who comes to eventually deliver his people. After he has passed on judgment to these nations, to these fallen sisters in this world, his people will be delivered. His people will be restored to their true city. As Cyrus indeed delivered the children of Israel and they were restored back to Jerusalem, Christ or who was the um typified in Cyrus, Christ will come and restore us into the new Jerusalem. That new city shall descend and we shall be put there with our Lord and Savior Christ Jesus. Amen. Amen. Amen. I just want us to just spend a minute um um or so and just give highlights that we have heard of this lesson. We have come to the end of this quarter um um studying illusions. What are some of the highlights and please just type in there just tell us what is one thing that stood out for you that you want to carry with you for the rest of the year that you will remember this lesson by? What are some of those highlights very quickly? Uh thank you. So I have three highlights. Um uh there were so many lessons uh because even there were there were actually some things which I was I was learning as I was I was trying to prepare for uh this panel but the three lessons were that really touched me were the depth of the many symbols that are found in the book of Genesis. Almost in fact every single story and every single lesson had like a wonderful spiritual application and it is so clear that especially revelation is found in Genesis. And my second lesson is actually connected to the first that revelation isn't just found in Genesis. It's found throughout the scriptures. Every single week when we're doing some other book, you could actually find at least sometimes just one symbol or in fact huge number of symbols that are connected with the book of revelation. And it actually tells me it it just impressed upon my heart most strongly uh that the book of revelation is a book that we must read. Amen. In fact, it's the only book that really has a blessing directly attached to it. Directly attached to it. Revelation chapter one. All of the scripture has a blessing. But Revelation has a a blessing attached specifically to the reading of the reading of the book. Yeah. So, uh uh it is not an obscure book. It's a book that if you're studying the rest of the scriptures, you find wonderful applications and wonderful explanations of all the symbols inside. And then lastly, uh I was actually impressed with how much depth there is in the Psalms. It wasn't apparent to me especially when I was reading because I'm the one who took us through Psalm 4046 um when we went and saw the contrast that was present. It was actually lovely. You know I am not a fan of poetry. I like things that are much more plain and you know clear but it was actually wonderful seeing it and taking time to meditate upon the wonderful lessons found there. Amen. Amen. We praise God. What about you brother Rafael? What will you take with you for this quarter? And I just remind you, please type for us so that we can also see the things that you picked up, we probably didn't pick up that excite you about this quarter's lesson. Indeed, for me, what I what I what I what really um got to me is in essence the title of the lesson itself, illusions, images, symbols, how to study Bible prophecy. It simply tells me that it reinforces the notion that uh that that there is intelligence and design in everything. Amen. You see even the way God applies various stylistic devices to package his messages across various uh authors and and and and prophets and kings and and all these examples and the way God secures and hides the truth in in wonderful language that is at the same time simple for those who are seekers of truth to understand. And so it's simply uh telling us that that sometimes you know there are certain texts in the Bible that people have looked at and they've said what exactly they find like revelation is difficult. They they wonder what type of animals are this. But then you realize if you look at at at other in other areas in the Bible you realize that God has actually used animals to represent what to represent nations and all that. That that the mind of God is beautiful. That the mind of God is creative. The mind of God sometimes also calls upon us to sort of interact with it to decode it. There's it's there's an aspect of adventure. You know, when we were kids and you're playing detective, you know, you you you you're doing some sort of Sherlock Holmes, but here, you know, it's it's very it's it's it's it's very nice and and very very interesting and to come to a conclusion and to see the full picture of truth and the way God leads and has led his church and the way he has sealed the truth so nicely. Even Daniel at some point is told, "Seal up those words because they are for the time of the end." The intricacies of of of of God and his messages and how he has opened opened them up in these last days speaks to me beyond science that indeed there is an intelligent being who is guiding us and leading us and we can trust him. Amen. Amen. Amen. We praise God. And you're looking forward to the next quarter. I invite you to join us as well to study the next quarter. Um it's an exciting lesson. I am particularly um thrilled that we will be studying the book of Exodus. You know when you think about the book of Exodus, many people just think of the journey of Israel. Let me tell you, you need to join us again because the book of Exodus is filled with so much truth. It's not about just the journey of Israel. The book of Exodus is about God himself. It is the place where God finally revealed himself in ways we had never seen before. As a matter of fact, in the book of Exodus 6:3, he writes and says um when he's talking to Moses, he says, "I appeared unto Abraham and unto Isaac and unto Jacob by the name of God Almighty, but by my name Jehovah was I not known to them." God finally reveals himself as Jehovah in the book of Exodus. Even Isaac, Abraham, Jacob had not seen God in this way. It is the to the children of Israel that God revealed himself. The Bible says in the book of Isaiah 40:9 that in the last days the message that is going to be proclaimed by us is the message behold your God. The book of Exodus is inviting you to come now and behold the character of your God. He is very well revealed right here in the book of Exodus. I look forward to studying with you and I please uh stay tuned for the public campus ministry Sabbath. God bless you and thank you for joining us today. Um I will ask you to kindly pray with us even as we close. Thank you. Let's uh be reverent as we pray. Heavenly Father, we are so grateful not merely that you have led us through uh this lesson um but that you have also led us through all the lessons to this point. There are so many wonderful uh messages that you have given to us. Um all of us because all of us have been participating together as we are going together through the scriptures. Uh bless us and keep us as we meditate upon the themes that we have studied and as we seek to keep them and also as we are entering into um uh uh the next coming lesson. May you also guide us as you have guided us before in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[7.7s] Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you
[10.0s] so much for joining us today on this
[12.7s] holy Sabbath day as we study the stud a
[16.0s] Sabbath school lesson for this week, the
[18.9s] last one for this quarter as well. We
[21.2s] are super excited to have come this far
[23.4s] with you and I praise God that you have
[25.8s] been able to follow us. If you're
[27.5s] joining us for the first time in this
[29.0s] lesson study, please welcome. We will
[31.4s] give you highlights at the end of what
[33.0s] we have been able to learn through the
[35.0s] quarter and I pray that you will be
[36.9s] blessed. As we begin this study today,
[39.4s] we are joined by two of my brothers. I
[41.9s] would like them to introduce themselves
[43.7s] and then we can go into the study today.
[46.5s] Um, let me start with you, my husband.
[48.2s] Uh, thank you. Uh, my name is Jafet
[50.6s] Rono. A pleasure to be here. Thank you.
[53.1s] My name is Enongo Rafa. It's a pleasure
[55.3s] to be here. Amen. and my name is Jess
[58.1s] Rono. Brother Rafael, kindly pray for
[60.6s] us. Let's believe and pray. Our kind of
[63.7s] loving father and master, we thank you
[65.0s] and praise your name. Been with us
[66.6s] faithfully throughout this quarter. And
[69.0s] now, dear Lord, as we are looking at
[72.2s] this last lesson once again, dear Lord,
[74.3s] as you've guided us, may you guide us,
[77.0s] open our minds, open our thoughts, and
[79.8s] ultimately may you speak life to us. Is
[82.2s] our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen.
[84.6s] Amen. You know this week has been an
[87.0s] amazing week of public campus ministry
[90.5s] week and this Sabbath is public campus
[92.7s] ministry Sabbath. I especially like this
[95.8s] ministry because that is where I learned
[98.5s] and I was trained how to preach the word
[101.0s] of God. It had a great impact in my
[103.4s] life. My first mission I attended
[105.4s] because I went to a university church to
[107.6s] a public campus and the ministries there
[110.3s] are doing a tremendous work especially
[113.0s] here in Nairobi. New Life Seventh Day
[115.2s] Adventist Church supports such
[117.3s] ministries um for our local campuses
[120.2s] around. So if you're tuning in and
[122.3s] you're from a public campus, you are
[124.6s] most welcome for you to be able to see
[127.4s] what other campuses are doing um around
[130.2s] Nairobi and even outside Nairobi. I just
[133.5s] want to just pause here and allow my
[136.2s] brothers to just also speak of the
[138.3s] impact of public campus ministry or what
[141.4s] they think is the biggest highlight when
[143.6s] they went I know they went to public
[145.3s] campuses or what they what they think we
[148.3s] can do to continue supporting these
[150.2s] ministries. I'll start with you my uh
[152.6s] thank you so much. I believe very
[154.1s] strongly in u ministry that allows young
[156.7s] people to go out and um fulfill the
[159.4s] great commission going out to um as
[162.2s] you're teaching and as you're
[163.4s] ministering God is also ministering to
[165.3s] you and even others around you are are
[167.1s] ministering and you're fellowshipping
[168.3s] together. It is always wonderful you
[170.3s] know um uh Paul tells us evil
[172.6s] communications corrupt good morals but
[175.0s] on the other hand good communication
[176.8s] like good company and a and a blessed
[179.0s] holy company can really be a blessing
[180.6s] for young people in this difficult path.
[182.8s] So we praise God for that wonderful
[184.9s] ministry. Amen. We praise God. The theme
[187.9s] this week has been called, charged,
[191.6s] commissioned. Brother Rafael, tell us
[193.6s] about public compass ministry in your
[195.5s] life. Indeed. Uh remember a quote from
[198.2s] Ellen White from the book education
[199.8s] which says with such an army of workers
[202.4s] as our youth rightly trained might
[205.1s] furnish how soon the message of a
[208.1s] crucified risen and soon coming savior
[210.6s] might be carried to the whole world.
[213.0s] It's simply telling us that the youth
[215.3s] have got great potential to really
[218.5s] declare the gospel for the saving of
[220.7s] souls and ultimately to usher in the
[223.4s] second coming of Christ with power and
[225.9s] with great glory. And so at New Life 7th
[228.6s] Day Adventist Church is a vibrant uh
[230.9s] public campus uh ministries targeting
[233.7s] young people in tertiary um and uh uh
[237.4s] levels tertiary institutions of
[239.2s] education and and and it cuts across um
[243.0s] uh Nairobi and even beyond. And it's a
[246.0s] very vibrant ministry very powerful uh
[249.2s] and very useful in the conversion of
[251.8s] souls we see most. In fact, one of the
[255.0s] greatest drivers for evangelism, I
[257.6s] believe in this country and in our
[258.9s] region is from public campuses. You see
[262.2s] every every every end of the year and
[265.0s] sometimes media when other people are
[267.1s] going to celebrate their festivities, a
[268.9s] group of young people decide to go out
[270.6s] into the field for two to three weeks,
[272.2s] sometimes even a month and they hold
[274.2s] evangelistic and and as well as
[276.7s] community services uh to unentered areas
[280.4s] and ultimately leave those areas having
[282.3s] planted churches. A very powerful
[284.2s] ministry for the work of God. Amen.
[287.2s] Amen. And New Life has not been um
[290.6s] discussed seeing some of those blessings
[292.6s] that we have seen. I in fact recently um
[295.2s] through that work um New Life just
[297.6s] baptized about um 20 plus um souls from
[301.4s] um Kibra here, one of the slums here in
[303.8s] Nairobi. And we praise God for the work
[305.9s] that is going on. Some of you may ask,
[308.2s] is it really possible for me to live a
[310.3s] faithful life, a holy life following God
[312.9s] in a public campus? Please tune in today
[316.4s] and you will just be amazed with what
[318.7s] God is doing in our public campuses.
[321.4s] Amen. Back to the lesson. We have been
[324.1s] studying this quarter illusions, images,
[327.5s] symbols, how to study Bible prophecy.
[330.8s] The symbols that the Lord has put in his
[333.4s] word to enable us to be able to
[336.2s] understand the deeper things of his
[338.8s] word, especially as pertaining to those
[340.8s] who will be living in the last days.
[343.3s] It's been an exciting lesson as we have
[345.4s] been looking at old truths in new light.
[348.4s] As you have been looking at new truths
[350.3s] and getting excited that indeed the Lord
[352.6s] is assuring us he is about to come
[355.5s] again. This week we will be looking at
[358.5s] our last lesson images of the end.
[362.5s] Images of the end. You know friends,
[365.5s] when we started this lesson, there's one
[368.0s] thing that we noticed from the beginning
[370.4s] that the nations as they are will not
[373.4s] always continue to be as they are. We
[376.1s] talked um at length about the kings that
[378.6s] have been set up in this world, they
[380.8s] will not always continue to be there.
[383.3s] That God is about to establish his own
[385.7s] kingdom. The Bible tells us in the book
[388.0s] of Hebrews chapter 11 that Abraham was a
[392.2s] man who looked for a city whose builder
[395.9s] and maker is God. The foundation set up
[399.2s] by God himself. Hebrews 13 will write
[402.0s] and say that we have no continuing city
[405.6s] here. We are looking for a city yet to
[409.7s] come. A city yet to come. But before
[412.7s] that city comes, the Bible tells us that
[415.4s] God is going to send several judgments
[419.4s] to the world. And I want us to go back
[422.0s] in history and we look at those things
[424.6s] that were written for time for our
[427.4s] learning so that we can understand the
[429.6s] judgments that are going to also take
[431.5s] place in these last days. Our key text
[434.2s] comes from the book of Jonah chapter 1
[437.0s] verse 9. Um kindly read for us brother
[439.7s] Raphael. Jonah 1 and verse 9 says
[443.4s] reading from the New King James Version.
[445.8s] So he said to them, I am a Hebrew and I
[448.6s] fear the Lord the God of heaven who made
[451.0s] the sea and the dry land.
[453.7s] Um I think the story of Jonah is quite a
[456.6s] famous story. Um in fact even those
[459.6s] people who do who are not Christians
[461.5s] really like the story of Jonah. Just the
[463.8s] idea of a man that was was was in a big
[467.3s] fish for three days and three nights um
[470.0s] just gets people excited to just imagine
[472.4s] the kind of God that we serve. Um let me
[475.1s] just come to you and um for you to break
[478.1s] um give us the background of Jonah by
[480.8s] the time we are um before we come to the
[483.8s] uh Jonah chapter 1 verse9 him describing
[487.0s] the God whom he serves. tell us about
[489.6s] the history of Jonah and what was his
[491.2s] commission and and what are the lessons
[493.4s] we have in this last days. Uh thank you
[495.5s] so much. Um I think the story of Jonah
[498.5s] even if it's very brief it's only four
[500.0s] chapters. Uh and if you have not read
[502.1s] the book of Jonah I strongly encourage
[504.2s] just uh it'll take maybe 30 minutes to
[506.2s] read and meditate and just think about
[507.7s] it. Um uh uh uh uh yeah Jonah is
[511.4s] actually a book that Christ himself
[513.4s] referenced which is one of the things
[515.0s] first of all that's very important you
[516.5s] know whenever Christ references
[517.9s] something already that's like you have
[519.8s] to go back you have to go back to very
[521.8s] important yeah when Christ says um as
[524.9s] Daniel the prophet or whoth let him
[526.9s] understand you you go back to Daniel and
[529.0s] read it you know when Isaiah is
[530.3s] referenced you go back to Isaiah and
[531.9s] when Jonah is being referenced here we
[533.4s] we go back and try and understand what
[535.5s] Christ was talking about in Matthew
[536.9s] chapter 12 from verse 38 to 42. This is
[540.1s] what Christ said. Uh there were some
[542.0s] Pharisees and their scribes who are
[543.5s] asking master we would see a sign of
[546.0s] thee and this is um it's not that Christ
[548.6s] had never performed a miracle ever. It
[551.6s] is actually unfortunately it is almost
[553.4s] like they were seeking for gratification
[555.0s] of their senses. Which is why Christ
[557.0s] responded and said an evil and
[559.7s] adulterous generation seeketh after a
[561.9s] sign and there shall be no sign to give
[564.2s] it except the sign of the prophet who
[566.6s] Jonas for Jonah was three days and three
[569.9s] nights in the belly of the whale. So
[572.0s] shall the son of man be three days and
[573.6s] three nights in the heart of the earth.
[575.7s] And the men, that's number one. Number
[577.3s] two, the men of Nineveh shall rise in
[579.4s] judgment with this generation and shall
[581.3s] condemn it because they repented at the
[583.4s] preaching of Jonah and behold a greater
[585.9s] than Jonah is here. So think about that.
[589.7s] Um there are some two lessons there that
[591.4s] we can pick before I want us to pick
[593.7s] another three lovely lessons from the
[596.1s] story of Jonah. Number one, as Jonah was
[599.1s] in the belly of the whale three days and
[601.0s] three nights, so Christ said that he
[602.6s] would be where? in the heart of the
[604.2s] earth for three days and three nights
[607.4s] that it was actually a reference to the
[609.5s] cross right there. And someone may
[611.5s] wonder, you know, how how how does the
[613.4s] math work out? And that used to bother
[614.6s] me a bit because we know that Christ
[617.0s] died when on a Friday, correct? And then
[620.2s] Christ resurrected on a Sunday morning.
[622.4s] So it's like, wait, that's not three
[624.2s] days and three nights. Christ was in the
[626.2s] heart of the earth for three days and
[628.3s] three nights from when he began um his
[632.5s] great turmoil and where was that at
[634.6s] Gethsemane and from that point on from
[637.4s] that point on three days and three night
[639.6s] three nights Christ was in the heart of
[641.3s] the earth and it's interesting um
[644.5s] correlation why was Jonah in the belly
[646.3s] of the well why well h disobeyed God he
[650.3s] had disobeyed God as a matter of fact it
[652.1s] was almost an act of grace that God did
[654.5s] not destroy him but saved him through a
[656.7s] belly of a will. Yes. But on the other
[658.6s] hand, why was Christ in the heart of the
[660.2s] earth? Because of this our sins. Our
[662.6s] sins. So wonderfully, even if h Christ
[665.8s] almost received from in fact did in fact
[668.5s] receive unto himself sins that were not
[671.0s] even his own that he might suffer but
[673.3s] that we might be saved. Amen. So that's
[676.2s] number one. Lesson number one. Lesson
[677.8s] number two is the lesson of the
[679.7s] judgment. And it's actually in the three
[682.0s] I would say sublessons that we find in
[684.6s] the life of Jonah. Jonah was a reluctant
[688.0s] prophet. He was going to preach to a
[690.3s] people who are a sinful people. They are
[692.6s] Assyrians. This is something that you
[694.3s] should go and study for yourself. And
[695.9s] you realize that the Assyrian people
[697.4s] were not a good people. They're not nice
[699.2s] people. The people who are living in
[700.9s] Nineveh. And so when Jonah initially
[703.4s] felt that he should not go and preach
[705.4s] that message, he felt a feeling that
[707.9s] sometimes you and I can feel when you
[710.1s] look down upon others and say, "Ah, this
[711.8s] one is lost, a lost case and a lost
[713.8s] cause." But in the book of 1 Timothy
[716.9s] 1:15, how does Paul Paul who we know is
[721.4s] um the Apostle Paul who we know God gave
[725.5s] a a a extra measure of the Holy Spirit.
[729.0s] Yeah. uh who we know wrote so many books
[731.3s] of the scriptures. Paul himself, how
[734.2s] does he describe himself? He says, "I
[735.9s] was the chief of sinners." First Timothy
[739.2s] chapter 1 verse 15, Paul says, "This is
[743.0s] a faithful saying and worthy of all
[745.2s] acceptance, acceptation, that Christ
[747.9s] came into the world to save sinners of
[750.1s] whom I am chief." So when we think that
[753.8s] others don't deserve it, the message of
[755.9s] salvation, realize that also us, we
[758.2s] don't deserve it either. Romans chapter
[760.1s] 3 23 it says what? Um, for all have
[763.9s] sinned, uh, Romans 3:23, it says, for
[767.7s] all have sinned and come short of the
[769.6s] glory of God. So lesson number one,
[772.1s] that's subless number one under the
[775.1s] general message of the judgment. uh in
[777.9s] the life of Jonah, you and I, the reason
[780.8s] why we're going to give that message is
[782.8s] because that message was given to us as
[784.6s] well. And so God is allowing us like
[787.2s] Jonah to participate in the me in in the
[789.8s] giving of this message even despite how
[792.3s] deplorable and despicable we think the
[794.5s] people are to whom we are giving that
[796.2s] message. Go on anyway. That's lesson
[799.1s] number one. Lesson number two, we have
[802.7s] to realize that Jonah when he was being
[806.0s] um
[807.6s] it's actually the the memory text that
[809.8s] we read. So he said to them, I am a
[812.8s] Hebrew and I fear the Lord, the God of
[815.4s] what? Heaven, who made the sea and the
[818.0s] dry land. So we have a very strong
[820.5s] connection to what that the God who is
[823.8s] sending Jonah is actually the God of
[826.4s] creation. Similarly in the last days,
[830.0s] Similarly in the last days, Revelation
[832.2s] 14 6 and 7, we have a a a very deep
[836.4s] connection between uh the message being
[839.0s] sent, the gospel. We are told it is the
[840.9s] everlasting gospel. Revelation 14:6 and
[843.4s] we are told verse 7, saying with a loud
[845.6s] voice, fear God and give glory to him uh
[848.3s] h for the hour of his judgment is come
[850.2s] and worship him that made heaven and
[852.2s] earth and seas and the fountains of
[854.6s] water. And especially is this found
[857.0s] within the only commandment that
[858.7s] highlights this very special fact, the
[861.0s] Sabbath commandment. So a a God is is is
[865.0s] having us appreciate and never
[866.6s] disconnect that special connection
[869.1s] between God as the creator and the
[871.0s] message that he's giving us to send to
[873.0s] his people. That's lesson number two as
[875.1s] I was reading. And then lastly, lesson
[877.7s] number three is that message that Jonah
[880.7s] was giving to Nineveh to the Assyrians.
[883.9s] Similarly, God is giving us a message to
[887.0s] uh uh you could say because uh there's a
[889.4s] connection. The Babylonians came out of
[891.1s] Assyria. So, in a sense, God is giving
[893.8s] us a similar message to spiritual
[896.4s] Babylon. Revelation chapter 14, sorry,
[899.6s] chapter 18, reading verse 4. It says, "I
[902.2s] heard another angel um another voice
[904.8s] from heaven saying, "Come out of
[906.2s] Babylon, huh, my people, and be not
[908.6s] partakers of our sins, that you receive
[910.8s] not of her plagues, that we should not
[913.4s] shy away from giving this very difficult
[916.1s] and painful message, a message that the
[918.4s] whole world must repent." Amen. The
[921.5s] reason why sometimes we even have
[923.5s] struggling with issues even social
[926.1s] issues in this world even in this
[928.0s] country and any any single other place
[930.6s] to which um we would inhabit um and we
[933.4s] find sin everywhere is because people
[935.7s] are unwilling to preach a message that
[938.3s] requires repentance. The message fear
[941.3s] God and give him glory is a message
[943.4s] pointing to God's commandments to
[945.0s] obedience and to a call for us to
[947.1s] repent. In fact, the message of John the
[949.6s] Baptist was what was a message of
[952.0s] repentance. For the kingdom of God is at
[953.9s] hand at hand. And even Christ, we told
[955.8s] he continued giving that similar message
[958.1s] of of repentance. And God is calling
[960.9s] upon us to very boldly preach this
[963.2s] message of repentance. Come out of her,
[965.7s] my people. My people. You know, in the
[968.1s] book of Jonah, chapter 4, um allow me to
[971.4s] just read verse um two. Jonah gives us
[975.0s] um additional details of what he was
[977.3s] thinking when he was being reluctant.
[979.1s] Yes. Why he was scared to go to Nineveh.
[981.6s] And it touches very closely to the last
[983.4s] point which you give. Um and I like that
[985.4s] you really broke down this into three um
[988.1s] very um clear points that we can follow.
[991.1s] And the Bible says in Jonah 4:2 it says,
[993.7s] "And he prayed unto the Lord and said, I
[995.4s] pray thee, oh Lord, was not this my
[998.1s] saying?" He's like, "Aren't this not the
[1000.3s] things that I was saying? I knew this. I
[1002.7s] knew this would happen when I was yet in
[1005.3s] my country. Before when I before I left,
[1008.5s] therefore I fled before unto Tashish.
[1011.8s] Why? For I knew I knew that thou had a
[1015.7s] gracious God and merciful, slow to
[1019.1s] anger, and of great kindness, and
[1021.1s] repentst thee of the evil. Jonah had
[1024.2s] such a beautiful understanding of the
[1026.9s] character of God, but he was so scared
[1030.1s] to go. As you said, he was so scared to
[1032.0s] preach this message because he knew God,
[1034.7s] these people will repent and God is
[1036.5s] going to do what? God is going to cover
[1038.2s] their sins and he's going to forgive
[1039.8s] them. And then Jonah was so scared that
[1041.8s] he's going to look like a liar. And are
[1044.0s] there some of us who when it comes to
[1046.6s] the preaching of the gospel, we are we
[1049.7s] pride and we we care so much about our
[1052.5s] reputation more than we care about the
[1056.0s] people that are going to be saved. That
[1058.0s] was the case of Jonah. He he he he he he
[1061.4s] lifted up himself and thought his
[1063.6s] reputation was too dear to him than that
[1066.7s] of another soul. Some maybe you've been
[1068.6s] called to go and give a pamphlet
[1070.4s] somewhere and you're like ah these
[1072.1s] people will start perceiving me you know
[1073.7s] I'm the I'm probably their boss in the
[1075.8s] office you know I'm probably Mr. So and
[1078.2s] so I cannot just walk around here and
[1080.3s] said that my reputation will be injured.
[1082.9s] You know I don't want to be associated
[1084.2s] with this weird seventh day adventist
[1086.2s] church ex we have a very distinct
[1089.6s] message a very a message that is very
[1091.8s] different from what the world is
[1093.0s] preaching and then you go and tell them
[1094.9s] Babylon is fallen and some of your
[1097.3s] friends are in Babylon. You're like ah
[1099.5s] my reputation is too dear for me. You
[1101.5s] know the book Steps to Christ says that
[1103.3s] some of us have made reputation our
[1106.7s] idol. That was the case for Jonah. He
[1109.5s] his reputation was too dear than that of
[1112.7s] the souls he was called to save. Um
[1115.5s] brother Raphael just give us the context
[1118.5s] of of of Nineveh where Jonah was called
[1122.2s] to go and preach. Who were these kind of
[1124.4s] people? What are the some of the scenes
[1126.3s] that these people were participating in?
[1128.6s] And what was Jonah's message and how can
[1131.4s] we draw lessons for us today living in
[1133.8s] the last days? Indeed, um the Bible
[1137.0s] records in Jonah chapter 1 and verse two
[1139.8s] that uh he's told by God, arise, go to
[1143.4s] Nineveh, that great city, and cry
[1145.4s] against it, for their wickedness is come
[1147.8s] up before me. The Bible is telling us
[1151.2s] that Nineveh wasn't like a righteous
[1153.4s] city. It wasn't a street that was known
[1155.4s] for for for for good things, but it we
[1158.1s] are told that their wickedness and you
[1161.0s] could imagine all manner of weakness
[1163.2s] wickedness that um that tends to call
[1166.2s] God to make judgment. It's almost a I
[1169.2s] would compare Nineveh to uh Sodom and
[1171.3s] Gomorrah. I would I I'd reckon that
[1173.9s] almost similar things were playing out.
[1176.2s] Idolatry uh as you said, an evil and uh
[1180.8s] and adulterous generation. uh that that
[1183.5s] that was seeking signs and all manner of
[1185.7s] things. But eventually um the Bible
[1188.3s] records Jonah is given this message and
[1192.0s] he's told to cry out in Jonah chapter 3
[1194.6s] and verse4 and he's crying out and he's
[1196.8s] saying what he says his message is yet
[1199.7s] 40 days and Nineveh shall be what?
[1202.1s] Nineveh shall be overthrown. And so um
[1205.9s] he preaches this message, a very heavy
[1209.0s] message, a very uh a message of warning.
[1212.6s] And this is everything. This is all that
[1215.2s] he preaches. But then the Bible records
[1217.9s] the response of the king and and of the
[1221.5s] and of the people uh there. And in it is
[1225.4s] recorded in verses 5 to 10. And I just
[1228.6s] like to highlight a few things. Verse 5
[1230.6s] tells us, "The people of Nineveh
[1232.0s] believed God, you know, and they
[1234.3s] proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth
[1236.6s] with the greatest of them, even to the
[1238.4s] least of them." And it tells us that
[1240.6s] this revival began with who? With the
[1242.9s] king. Bible records, "And the and for
[1245.9s] word came unto the king of Nineveh, and
[1247.9s] he arose from his throne. He put away
[1250.2s] his robes and he covered himself with
[1251.9s] sackcloth and he sat in ashes and he
[1254.8s] made a decree that not even the animals
[1257.8s] were to enjoy to drink water or to test
[1260.5s] anything you know but all were to
[1262.8s] prostrate themselves before God and they
[1264.9s] were to seek seek his face. Amen.
[1268.6s] Jonah's message was a message of doom.
[1271.7s] He said 40 days and he never will be
[1274.2s] destroyed. But we respon's
[1285.0s] message was a message of repentance. No,
[1287.4s] Jonah went and said 40 days Nineveh is
[1290.2s] going to be destroyed. But we see that
[1292.7s] having perceived this message in their
[1295.0s] hearts they were pricricked and they
[1297.0s] responded what? They sought what? They
[1298.9s] sought repentance with God. And that's a
[1301.0s] powerful lesson for all of us. You know
[1303.0s] sometimes just because the message that
[1305.0s] we are receiving from the preacher, the
[1306.8s] message that we're receiving from from
[1307.9s] from scripture or from wherever we we we
[1310.5s] we we are receiving messages from God um
[1314.2s] uh whatever avenue or channel it comes
[1316.8s] in and how it is phrased does not mean
[1318.6s] that the door of mercy has been closed.
[1321.0s] As long as God is sending uh God is
[1323.3s] knocking at our hearts, God is God is
[1325.2s] sending messages, there is always that
[1327.8s] possibility that repentance is possible.
[1330.7s] Amen. and and and therefore we shouldn't
[1333.2s] be afraid by messages of doom, hard
[1335.7s] messages. You know, sometimes we we we
[1339.1s] as a people ask preachers to to to give
[1342.6s] us a soft message, you know, but Jonah
[1345.2s] on the contrary, you can see he was a he
[1347.0s] was a prophet on a mission. Both the
[1349.0s] mission of God and also his own personal
[1350.7s] issues that he wanted to to sort out.
[1352.6s] But nonetheless, we see regardless of
[1354.6s] how the message was packaged, regardless
[1356.4s] of how the the wording of the message,
[1358.6s] the the people of the people of Nineveh
[1361.2s] from the greatest to the least of them
[1363.0s] responded with an attitude of
[1365.2s] repentance. I think that's a very very
[1367.1s] powerful point because sometimes you
[1368.6s] know we sit down and we say ah that
[1371.3s] person was too harsh in the delivery and
[1374.0s] for sure they were probably harsh they
[1375.8s] should have done a better job but whe
[1378.0s] harsh or not harsh did they speak the
[1380.2s] truth? Yes. Yeah. Very powerful.
[1382.1s] Ultimately all messages should be framed
[1385.1s] in the context of the character of God.
[1387.5s] You see as you read to us uh in chapter
[1390.0s] 4 and verse two eventually Jonah himself
[1393.8s] says he knew the character of God. He
[1396.1s] knows what what type of God he is that
[1398.2s] he is what a gracious God merciful slow
[1402.3s] to anger and of great kindness and it
[1405.0s] and repenteth thee of evil. And so to us
[1409.0s] today, my brothers and my sisters, the
[1411.4s] message of Jonah comes and and we are
[1413.5s] told in the context of the three angels
[1415.8s] messages in Revelation um um and also
[1420.4s] ultimately in Revelation 18 and verse4
[1423.0s] where a loud cry is heard from heaven
[1426.1s] from God himself. And he's saying what?
[1428.6s] Come out of her my people and do not be
[1431.4s] partakers of what? Of her sins, lest you
[1434.3s] receive of her plagues. The message
[1437.4s] preceding all that is speaking about the
[1439.6s] destruction of Babylon. But ultimately
[1442.1s] the children of God will be able to hear
[1444.9s] the the call of God asking them to move
[1447.5s] out to move out of this situation. And
[1449.8s] so it's simply telling us that the
[1451.4s] declarations of God to a certain extent
[1453.6s] are conditional that God is not does not
[1456.6s] send us truth to embarrass us. God does
[1458.6s] not send us truth to to to to ridicule
[1461.1s] us and to put us down and to tell us
[1462.8s] that we have made mistakes and lo and
[1464.5s] behold the consequences are coming. You
[1467.0s] know, I remember um when we were young
[1469.6s] and we we used to watch wrestling,
[1472.5s] there's a way uh you know like a tough
[1475.4s] guy is coming and you know by the music
[1477.8s] he plays and I remember there used to be
[1480.6s] another guy who's uh referred to as a
[1483.0s] moary attendant and there's some ominous
[1485.3s] music and and even his opponents will
[1487.7s] know he's coming you know and and for a
[1489.4s] fact they're going to get a whooping.
[1491.4s] God doesn't approach us like that, you
[1493.2s] know, and whenever we hear the messages
[1495.5s] of God, there is always room for us to
[1498.7s] do what? To be made right together with
[1500.7s] him. In uh in Deuteronomy 30 and verse
[1503.7s] 19, God says, I call heaven and earth to
[1506.9s] record this day against you that he has
[1508.9s] set before us what life and death,
[1511.4s] blessing and curse. And then he says
[1513.0s] what? Therefore, choose life that thou
[1515.7s] both thou and your seed may live. He
[1518.3s] continues elsewhere and he says um that
[1521.0s] when he when in relation to the truth
[1523.0s] and to the messages that we receive
[1524.3s] sometimes devoid of the messenger in
[1527.0s] John chapter 3 and verse 17 it says for
[1529.6s] God sent not his son into the world to
[1532.2s] do what? Not to condemn the world but
[1534.6s] rather that the world through him might
[1537.1s] be saved. So when you're receiving a
[1539.1s] message from a prophet from from from
[1540.9s] from any avenue of God, let us
[1543.8s] understand the character of God and let
[1546.3s] us understand these messages with their
[1548.7s] conditions. The Bible records and um and
[1551.7s] the sister white records in the book
[1553.4s] prophets and kings page 271 that their
[1557.0s] doom was averted. The God of Israel was
[1559.3s] exalted and honored throughout the heen
[1561.8s] world and his law was what? Was revered.
[1564.5s] Not until many years later was they
[1566.1s] never to fall prey to the surrounding
[1567.8s] nations. Why? Through forgetfulness of
[1570.2s] God and through boastful pride. We see
[1574.3s] eventually they were they were restored
[1577.3s] because of how they responded to the
[1578.9s] message. In this last day we have the
[1581.0s] three angels messages. We have the
[1582.7s] foretelling of the cast the the bringing
[1585.3s] down of Babylon and all and all of its
[1587.7s] relatives, all of all of the systems
[1589.8s] that are that are pertaining to it and
[1591.3s] that surround it and and that support
[1592.7s] it. But ultimately God says come out of
[1596.0s] her my people. In Revelation 14:12 he
[1599.0s] tells us that indeed there will be a
[1600.6s] people who will respond yes to the call
[1602.9s] of God. And who are these people? What
[1604.6s] what will be their identifying mark?
[1606.4s] They keep the commandments of God and
[1608.5s] have what? The faith of Jesus Christ
[1610.5s] which is what the spirit of prophecy.
[1612.9s] And so these are images of the hen of
[1616.2s] the end as the lesson is uply as uply uh
[1621.2s] titled this week. These are images of
[1623.3s] the end. Amen. Amen. Amen. Very
[1626.0s] wonderful. You know, someone might be
[1627.4s] saying, oh, you know, um, God did not
[1631.0s] destroy Nineveh. He destroyed Nineveh
[1634.8s] way later. So, this message we are
[1637.1s] saying that it it's the similar to the
[1639.0s] message of the first angel's message
[1640.7s] like Jonah, we are going to preach to
[1642.4s] Babylon. Um, so maybe maybe I can just
[1645.9s] stay in Babylon. Maybe Babylon will also
[1647.8s] repent and and God will not will be
[1650.1s] merciful. Haven't you said that God is
[1651.9s] merciful and he will repent of his evil?
[1654.1s] I mean, we'll repent of evil. So, maybe
[1656.2s] God will repent of the judgment that he
[1658.5s] has actually um um um cast against um
[1662.6s] Babylon and it's okay. I'll just I'll
[1664.8s] probably be saved in my sins. Let's just
[1666.4s] chill in Babylon. You know, it's true.
[1668.6s] Uh but then you see we must also um um
[1673.6s] interact with God in accordance with the
[1675.6s] way that he has with the way he has uh
[1678.7s] he has revealed himself. You see God
[1680.8s] himself is actively speaking. In fact if
[1682.8s] you if you look at Revelation 18 and
[1684.3s] verse4 that this this voice actually
[1686.2s] comes from the throne of God and it says
[1688.2s] what? Come out of her my people and do
[1691.8s] not what? Do not share in her sins. Uh
[1695.8s] yes. And uh lest you do what? Lest you
[1698.7s] receive.
[1700.8s] You see when when when when Jonah comes
[1703.0s] and says Nineveh, you'll be destroyed.
[1704.6s] That's the message of God. But now the
[1706.9s] revelator comes to us and speaks to us
[1708.9s] in our time and in our and in our
[1710.6s] generation and is saying that the
[1713.5s] destruction of Babylon is sure. That is
[1716.9s] that is that is a given there that
[1719.7s] Babylon has filled of the has has has
[1723.4s] filled the cup of probation. There's no
[1725.6s] there's no more mercy. There's nothing
[1727.4s] more that can be extended for Babylon.
[1729.0s] Babylon is like a train that has that
[1731.7s] has run out of control and is off the
[1733.9s] tracks and it's going to it's going to
[1735.7s] crash. What God is saying is for those
[1738.8s] of us who are in this train, come out of
[1741.1s] her before it is too late. He has
[1743.3s] provided yet another chariot. He's
[1745.5s] provided yet another ship, even the old
[1747.4s] ship of Zion, that shall safely take us
[1750.2s] to Haraba. And therefore, the
[1752.6s] destruction of Babylon is not
[1754.6s] conditional. That one is unconditional.
[1756.4s] It is written in scripture. But the
[1759.0s] salvation of men, that one is
[1761.5s] conditional depending on how we respond.
[1764.3s] Will we respond yes to the mark of God
[1770.0s] or will we respond yes to the mark of
[1772.6s] the beast? Those are the questions,
[1775.0s] images of the end that are echoed
[1777.3s] through the story of Jonah. Amen. Amen.
[1780.8s] Please don't stay in Babylon. God did
[1782.7s] not say come out of Nineveh. He told
[1784.9s] Nineveh to repent for Babylon, he's very
[1787.1s] clear, come out of her. I would actually
[1789.8s] add um if it could be that Babylon
[1792.7s] repented then as God said I think it's
[1795.5s] in Jeremiah chapter 18 where he says
[1798.0s] that to a nation that umh if I have said
[1801.3s] one thing and will bring judgment to the
[1803.4s] nation by the nation changes then I will
[1805.7s] repent and vice versa. If a nation was
[1807.5s] being righteous and I was I said I would
[1809.3s] bless them and then they change their
[1810.6s] ways but then we just know that um
[1814.0s] ultimately it will not happen. But if
[1815.7s] they did, if Babylon repented, 100% God
[1818.5s] would keep his word in the scriptures.
[1820.6s] That is the character of Abra. Yeah.
[1822.6s] Babon will not repent. I think it's
[1825.5s] similar to the story of um in Genesis
[1828.5s] 15:16 when God is telling Abraham that
[1831.4s] the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet
[1833.6s] full. And for sure when God was about to
[1836.8s] destroy the Amorites whatever it didn't
[1839.1s] matter what the Amorites did so long as
[1841.4s] the iniquity God had given them years of
[1844.2s] probation years over 430 years and they
[1848.4s] never repented. God eventually destroyed
[1851.8s] them. Yeah. Let me read Jeremiah 18 from
[1854.0s] vers 7 to verse 10. At what instant I
[1856.6s] shall speak concerning a nation and
[1858.6s] concerning a kingdom to pluck up and to
[1860.9s] pull down and to destroy it. If that
[1863.0s] nation against whom I have pronounced
[1865.0s] turn from their evil, I will repent of
[1867.5s] the evil that I thought to do unto them.
[1869.6s] And at what instance I shall speak
[1871.8s] concerning a nation on concerning a
[1873.5s] kingdom to build up and to plant it,
[1875.5s] that's to bless it. If it do evil in my
[1878.3s] sight, that it obey not my voice, then I
[1880.6s] will repent of the good uh wherewith I
[1883.4s] said I would benefit them. So h God's h
[1888.2s] um God is actually very fair and very
[1890.8s] reasonable as he said there. But then
[1892.3s] again, uh Babylon will not unfortunately
[1896.1s] will not um receive that very gracious
[1898.9s] opportunity. And that's that's why God's
[1900.7s] people are being told come out of
[1902.6s] Babylon. That ship is sinking. Just um
[1906.1s] come out of it. And this is a very good
[1908.2s] segue for us to go back to ancient
[1910.6s] Babylon and understand how ancient
[1913.0s] Babylon fell. You know, by the way, God
[1915.4s] sets up kings and God God pulls them
[1918.0s] down. God set up King Nebuchadnezzar, a
[1921.2s] proud king. But it was God's intention
[1923.4s] to use the hand of Nebuchadnezzar to
[1925.8s] lead the children of Israel into
[1928.2s] Babylon, into captivity. And
[1930.2s] Nebuchadnezzar being a proud Babylonian
[1932.7s] pagan king, he did not rever God. He did
[1936.2s] not rever God. He did not honor God. But
[1939.0s] eventually God humbled this proud king.
[1942.4s] As a matter of fact, we know that
[1944.5s] towards the very end of his life, it is
[1947.4s] recorded in the book of Daniel um
[1949.8s] chapter 4. Let me read from verse um
[1953.1s] verse 37. One of the some of the words
[1955.5s] that Nebuchadnezzar himself proclaims.
[1957.7s] He says, "Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise
[1961.2s] and extol and honor the king of heaven."
[1964.2s] God gave him an opportunity to know him
[1967.4s] through the the Hebrews who had come to
[1970.2s] his palace through Daniel who had come
[1973.1s] to work in his palace. God I mean the
[1975.9s] God revealed himself to Nebuchadnezzar
[1978.8s] and he says I honor the king of heaven.
[1981.8s] All whose works are truth and his ways
[1985.9s] judgment and those that walk in pride he
[1989.3s] is able to abase. He eventually served
[1993.1s] the king, the true king, the creator of
[1996.1s] the heavens and the earth. Was it so
[1998.5s] with his um um the generation that
[2001.6s] followed him? The Bible says no. We know
[2004.9s] of a man called Belchazar. Belshazar who
[2008.2s] was a grandson of Nebuchadnezzar. One
[2012.2s] day when he was reing and he's partying,
[2014.8s] he called a party in the book of Genesis
[2016.9s] chapter 5. And this man lifted up in his
[2019.8s] pride while his grandfather honored this
[2022.4s] God. And Belshazzarah has had known
[2025.0s] this. Actually in the book of Daniel
[2026.7s] chapter 5, Daniel eventually speaks to
[2029.0s] him. And and in verse 20, he says, "You
[2031.6s] knew of this God. You knew because your
[2033.9s] father honored this God. Then your
[2037.4s] grandfather honored this God, but you
[2039.7s] have chosen to despise this God." In an
[2042.1s] act of pride when he had just tasted the
[2044.6s] wine, he says, "I just want to show the
[2047.6s] children of Israel that I have defied
[2050.6s] everything including their own God." And
[2053.2s] in defiance to God, he takes that which
[2056.2s] is sanctified, that which is sacred,
[2058.2s] that which is meant to be holy, and he
[2060.4s] mixes it with that which is unholy. The
[2063.2s] last act to tell God, I do not care,
[2065.6s] right on your face. That same day
[2068.4s] judgment came upon the house of Babylon
[2071.8s] and Babylon fell in one night because of
[2074.9s] the pride of one king. It is then that
[2078.1s] it is recorded that as as as he was
[2081.2s] confused and when he was reing and he's
[2083.6s] parting the handwriting the handwriting
[2086.6s] came writing on the wall that judgment
[2089.5s] has come to Babylon that day. This man
[2092.6s] confused unable to interpret it. The
[2094.7s] queen suggests why don't you call this
[2096.9s] man called Daniel? He was he rever God.
[2100.1s] He knows God. All the astrologers had
[2102.3s] failed. Everyone had failed to interpret
[2104.5s] the writing on the wall or and Daniel
[2107.0s] came and interpreted it. And Daniel made
[2109.7s] it very clear actually. Let me just read
[2112.1s] um the book of Daniel chapter 5. The
[2114.6s] writing on the wall it says many many
[2120.5s] that God has numbered thy kingdom and
[2123.4s] finished it. God has reviewed the
[2125.5s] records of Babylon. God has taken a keen
[2129.0s] account of everything that you have been
[2131.4s] doing, O Belshazar, and you have been
[2134.0s] weighed in the balances. And what has
[2136.6s] been the verdict? You have been found
[2139.2s] wanting. And tonight, thy kingdom is
[2142.3s] divided and will be given to the Mids
[2145.3s] and the Persians. And for sure, Babylon
[2148.3s] fell that night. You know it is
[2150.9s] interesting um to to to know that
[2153.2s] Belshazar himself was slain the same
[2156.9s] night. The man who defied God. The man
[2160.0s] who defied God. That is the history of
[2163.4s] of of Belshazar and how um Babylon was
[2167.4s] destroyed. I just want to come and turn
[2169.4s] to you and for you to break it down for
[2172.3s] us to just give us details of um the
[2175.8s] mechanics of the destruction of of
[2178.1s] Babylon. have given the history. Tell us
[2180.3s] now how exactly did Babylon fall and how
[2184.0s] can we relate it to the fall of the of
[2186.5s] the spiritual Babylon in these last
[2188.7s] days. Amen. Amen. So uh uh uh actually
[2192.8s] it's a historical record. There was um
[2195.2s] one of the historians called Heroditus
[2198.2s] and um um who was writing down what was
[2201.7s] described which actually you can find um
[2204.2s] when we actually go through the next uh
[2206.6s] lesson which is the lesson Cyrus will
[2208.6s] actually see much more clearly what is
[2210.1s] found here that the destruction of
[2212.6s] Babylon came at a time when they were
[2216.3s] first of all at a time where they were
[2217.8s] not expecting in a manner that they were
[2220.1s] not expecting at all because um Babylon
[2224.2s] was constructed such that it had some of
[2226.2s] the thickest walls like you could
[2228.2s] actually have chariots side by side
[2230.9s] running like they could actually have
[2232.3s] races on top of the you know sometimes
[2234.2s] maybe you like people may misunderstand
[2236.1s] me friends
[2237.9s] uh the walls were so thick that you
[2240.2s] could have chariots actually having a
[2242.4s] race and competing
[2244.8s] on like on the top of the wall that's
[2246.9s] how thick the walls were and the inside
[2249.7s] of Babylon was well watered by what
[2252.4s] there was actually the great river
[2253.8s] Euphrates that actually flowed right in
[2256.0s] the middle of the Babylon. So Babylon
[2258.6s] was actually first of all it it it had
[2260.8s] very strong walls supposedly
[2262.4s] impregnable. Number two, it had a mighty
[2265.2s] river that supplied for it and then
[2267.4s] because of the mighty river that
[2268.8s] supplied Babylon Euphrates, they were
[2271.2s] actually able to have like basically a
[2273.4s] kind of like mini irrigation system
[2275.4s] basically a form of sustenance that
[2277.2s] could actually keep them during periods
[2279.6s] or even of of um um extreme periods. So
[2283.1s] for instance a siege you know like if
[2285.4s] there are nations that are trying to
[2287.6s] destroy them sack the city and sack the
[2289.4s] city they establish armies around around
[2291.4s] it. Unfortunately, you can't, you know,
[2293.6s] because how a siege normally happens is
[2295.5s] that you're trying to do what? To
[2296.7s] deplete the resources until people try,
[2298.9s] especially food and water. Food and
[2300.5s] water. And then people now they give up
[2301.8s] and they say, "Okay, fine. We give up.
[2303.5s] We will open the gates. We will
[2305.4s] surrender and then you will take, you
[2307.2s] know, and you like you you at least
[2308.6s] you'll spare us, you'll give us food."
[2310.2s] But Babylon are like, "No, like we can
[2312.0s] stay here for like years and by then
[2314.0s] either we'll get our allies. It's a
[2315.6s] self-sustaining city pretty much." Yeah.
[2318.2s] So, but then what we find here is that
[2320.8s] that which they assumed was their object
[2322.7s] of greatest support and strength was
[2325.2s] actually the point of weakness. We are
[2327.3s] told here by Heroditus, those that lived
[2329.9s] in the center of Babylon had no idea
[2332.6s] that the suburbs had fallen for it was a
[2334.9s] time of festival and all were dancing
[2337.3s] and indulging themselves in pleasures.
[2339.0s] That kind of sounds like what you've
[2340.3s] just described actually it because in
[2343.4s] the book of Daniel chapter 5, we
[2345.4s] actually find what? a bash, you know, a
[2348.0s] a a great party, like a very illustrious
[2350.6s] one. And around that particular time
[2352.7s] that is when um uh Cyrus who was the the
[2356.4s] one who was laying siege on Babylon at
[2358.2s] that time he uh supposedly and this is
[2361.4s] like one of those you know it's a story
[2363.0s] and uh we we can hope that maybe this is
[2366.0s] true or not um Bosephilus which is his
[2368.8s] horse died there and he was very angry
[2371.2s] that his favorite horse had drowned and
[2373.8s] um in Ephrites and so he he told his
[2377.4s] people to do what to divert the river.
[2379.8s] Another story is that uh Cyrus had also
[2382.8s] heard of the idea of diverting the river
[2384.7s] from somebody else who had diverted the
[2386.6s] rivers for other reasons of irrigation.
[2389.3s] Um but the end result is that Cyrus
[2392.4s] diverted the rivers and and once the
[2394.9s] rivers were diverted that um path that
[2397.8s] was uh used to supply water into the
[2400.2s] city was actually a nice nice tunnel for
[2403.0s] armies to actually go and what to go and
[2405.2s] attack. And that's actually what we find
[2407.0s] in the scriptures. Daniel chapter 5:18.
[2410.6s] As that is going on outside the city,
[2412.7s] Daniel is actually giving a prophecy uh
[2415.1s] sorry, a fulfillment of prophecy to
[2417.1s] Nebuchadnezzar, no to Belshazza, um the
[2420.6s] grandson of Nebuchadnezzar,
[2422.9s] we find in the book of Daniel chapter
[2424.6s] 5:E 18, it says, "Oh thou king, the most
[2428.3s] high God um gave Nebuchadnezzar thy
[2431.0s] father a kingdom and majesty." And verse
[2433.5s] 20, when his heart was lifted up and his
[2436.0s] mind hardened, he was deposed from his
[2438.5s] kingdom and they took his glory. And he
[2441.9s] was driven from the sons of men until he
[2444.6s] knew verse 21, the most high God rules
[2447.7s] in the kingdoms of men, and that he
[2449.5s] appoints over it whomsoever his will.
[2452.0s] And verse 22 is actually the clincher.
[2454.2s] And thou his son Belshazza has not
[2457.7s] humbled thine heart, though thou kneest
[2460.5s] all these things. That was actually the
[2463.5s] clinch. So he was not an ignorant. He's
[2465.8s] not ignorant. He knew these things. In
[2467.7s] fact, like um you I know you and I have
[2470.8s] called Belshazza the grandfather, the
[2473.7s] grandson of of Nebuchadnezzar. But in
[2476.5s] the in the book of Daniel,
[2478.8s] what is Nebuchadnezzar actually called?
[2481.0s] He's called the father. He's called the
[2483.0s] father. No, but the margin actually does
[2484.7s] it says fore father. Yes. Yes. But the
[2487.0s] the reason why he's also called like the
[2489.8s] father is um is actually because of
[2492.9s] what? Because the character was of a
[2495.2s] similar nature. That kind of pride was
[2497.4s] also there in Daniel chapter 4 was
[2499.6s] actually there in Nebuchadnezzar. But
[2501.7s] Nebuchadnezzar at least learned a
[2503.4s] lesson. Humbled himself and yeah and
[2505.0s] humbled himself. He had that nature. Um
[2507.9s] unlike Nebuchadnezzar, sorry. Um unlike
[2510.1s] Bshazza, there are actually four lessons
[2511.8s] I want us to draw and the fourth
[2513.0s] actually will will bridge us to the the
[2515.5s] very last lesson from all this because
[2518.5s] uh the same way in the book of
[2519.8s] revelation chapter 16 we find another
[2522.2s] city a city that is called Babylon.
[2524.5s] Revelation 16:12 we find um another city
[2528.6s] Babylon and something similar happens to
[2531.1s] that city called Babylon. We are told
[2533.6s] when this city called Babylon is being
[2535.8s] destroyed and receiving judgments from
[2538.0s] God, the sixth angel poured out his vial
[2541.0s] upon the great river Euphrates, that
[2543.0s] river that was supplying Babylon, and
[2545.0s] the waters of it were dried up that the
[2547.2s] way of the kings of the east might be
[2549.3s] prepared. So in the h in the literal
[2551.8s] city once uh h the river was dried up,
[2555.0s] the way was prepared for the armies of
[2556.8s] what? The kings of the east who were
[2558.7s] Cyrus. And I saw three and clean. Okay,
[2561.3s] let's um um uh jump actually that's
[2564.3s] actually the main part that I wanted to
[2565.8s] focus on the the very quickly the four
[2569.1s] lessons I want us to learn is number one
[2571.6s] both Babylons were blasphemous powers
[2574.2s] you actually h described how they went
[2577.2s] and they took uh all of the cups and all
[2579.6s] the vessels from the temple of God to
[2582.2s] use in a bash to try and celebrate
[2584.4s] mixing the sacred with the profane very
[2587.2s] terrible sin yes and that's precisely
[2589.2s] what Babylon also does The spirits of
[2591.0s] Babylon it is called it has uh names of
[2594.1s] blasphemy history. Yeah. And names of
[2596.2s] blasphemy upon its forehead. Number two,
[2599.5s] both of them were sitting and were
[2601.5s] supplied with many waters. Revelation
[2604.4s] 17:1. We are we are told and there came
[2607.5s] one of the seven angels which had the
[2609.8s] seven vials and talked with me and said
[2611.9s] unto me, come hither. I will show thee
[2614.6s] the judgment of the great harlot who we
[2617.4s] find who sits upon many waters. many
[2620.2s] waters the same as the literal Babylon.
[2623.0s] But here spiritually we are told the
[2624.7s] waters are what? Verse 15. And he said
[2626.7s] unto me, the waters which you saw where
[2628.8s] the whole the seats are peoples,
[2631.3s] multitudes, nations and tongues. So that
[2634.8s] means that the judgment in the end to
[2637.0s] spiritual Babylon will be to remove its
[2639.3s] spiritual it its support system and it
[2642.1s] shall actually be dry. What it thought
[2644.6s] was its um source of strength. Babylon
[2647.1s] receiving strength from the support of
[2648.6s] the people that support will be dried up
[2650.9s] and the way we shall be prepared for the
[2653.0s] king of the east of the east. Number
[2654.9s] three, the destruction was sudden. It
[2657.8s] isn't that that um e h they knew that on
[2661.5s] this particular day Babylon is being
[2663.2s] destroyed. They assumed that they would
[2664.4s] last there forever. And h in fact the
[2667.4s] reason why the king acted like that we
[2668.9s] are told that the king's knees smote one
[2670.6s] against another in Daniel chapter 5.
[2672.6s] Similarly for the destruction of of this
[2675.5s] world and and and the judgment that
[2677.6s] shall come upon spiritual Babylon. We
[2679.4s] find Christ speaking through his prophet
[2682.1s] uh Paul in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5
[2685.1s] verse 2 and verse three. We are told um
[2688.9s] the day of the Lord so comes at the as a
[2690.9s] thief in the night when they shall say
[2692.6s] peace and safety sudden destruction
[2694.5s] sudden destruction can come upon us all.
[2696.6s] And then number four, the nice segue
[2698.5s] that I want to bring us uh to uh the
[2700.9s] next section is that once the h the
[2704.9s] rivers were dried up, what happened? The
[2707.7s] way was prepared for who? The kings of
[2709.8s] the east. The kings of the east. And who
[2711.6s] are the kings of the east? None other
[2713.0s] than Cyrus and his army. And his army.
[2716.3s] Amen. Amen. A few lessons to pick up
[2718.8s] here just very quickly. Don't mix the
[2722.1s] the sacred and the profane. God has said
[2724.9s] separate this and that. Separate it. And
[2727.4s] what a terrible way to die in reveling
[2730.2s] parting which is the spirit we are
[2732.2s] seeing in this world today that we are
[2734.4s] not pausing to watch and pray not
[2737.0s] watching and praying then sudden
[2738.9s] destruction will come. And then
[2741.7s] Belshazar was surprised. Was he
[2743.6s] surprised because he did not know these
[2745.4s] things? No. He had been warned. He knew
[2747.3s] of these things. I pray that you and I
[2750.0s] will not be surprised. tell us of the
[2753.4s] kings of the east that now eventually
[2757.0s] enter Babylon.
[2759.3s] Indeed, um we are eventually told that
[2763.7s] evening uh Babylon actually fell and the
[2767.0s] king that was leading um um the Mids and
[2769.8s] the Persians uh was a Persian king. The
[2772.4s] Mids and the Persian was a broad-based
[2773.8s] government to use a term that is uh uh
[2776.8s] um that is quite common in this country
[2779.0s] at this particular point. And so uh they
[2781.4s] were led by a gentleman called Cyrus.
[2783.3s] And under Cyrus one historian by the
[2785.5s] name of Tom Holland writes uh in the in
[2788.6s] the book Dominion uh says under Cyrus
[2791.0s] the Persian Empire became the largest in
[2793.0s] history with what uh the largest
[2796.0s] conglomeration of territories that the
[2798.1s] world has ever seen. But then what one
[2801.4s] thing that is unique about Cyrus is that
[2804.4s] if you look at scripture and um and and
[2807.4s] we go with the theme of this week which
[2810.0s] is images of the end then we realize
[2812.0s] that Cyrus is almost to a certain extent
[2815.1s] a type of Christ. How is he a type of
[2817.8s] Christ? We see Cyrus eventually as many
[2821.7s] Persian kings and many kings before
[2824.2s] after him uh eventually got names. He
[2828.2s] was known as what? The great king or the
[2830.8s] king of kings which is almost close to
[2832.8s] blasphemy but uh nonetheless uh is still
[2836.3s] almost a type of who Christ is indeed
[2839.1s] the true king of kings and the lord of
[2841.0s] lords and the greatest of all kings. And
[2843.4s] so we see um Cyus is a type of Christ in
[2846.6s] that he mirrors what Christ would do in
[2849.3s] the end for his people is what Cyrus did
[2852.1s] for the people of God. How is it? So we
[2854.6s] see Cyrus himself comes from what? comes
[2857.1s] from the east. The same way we are told
[2859.0s] towards the end uh Christ comes where? A
[2861.8s] cloud coming where? From the east, you
[2864.2s] know. And so we see Cyrus himself comes
[2867.3s] from the east. Beyond beyond that, we
[2869.4s] see he wages war against Babylon. He
[2872.6s] wages war against Babylon. And and and
[2875.8s] as a result of that, he liberates God's
[2878.7s] people. Beyond that, Cyrus's own birth
[2881.4s] and place was prophesied. You know, like
[2884.5s] Christ in Isaiah 45 and verse one, Cyrus
[2887.2s] was a child of promise. Was a child who
[2889.3s] had been God himself calls him what? My
[2892.5s] anointed, his anointed and my shepherd.
[2894.9s] My shepherd. And so you see there are so
[2897.0s] many um so many correlations that we can
[2901.6s] we can make between the type of Cyrus
[2903.8s] and Christ as the antitype. He comes
[2906.8s] from the east. He wars against Babylon
[2909.2s] and he liberates God's people. After say
[2911.1s] the 70 years, it is Cyrus who gives a
[2913.3s] decree in the book of uh 2 Chronicles
[2916.7s] chapter 36 and verse 23. He says uh he
[2922.0s] charges the people to go and to do what?
[2925.0s] To go and to rebuild the house of God in
[2928.1s] Jerusalem. And so um we see he is indeed
[2932.2s] a type of Christ. He campaigns against
[2934.4s] Babylon. uh his the same way Christ says
[2938.7s] his enemy the enemy of the church in
[2941.0s] these last days is what Babylon and her
[2943.7s] and and the industries that she has
[2945.8s] built. Ultimately Cyrus brings down
[2948.5s] Babylon the same way Christ when he
[2950.5s] comes he shall bring down Babylon. An
[2953.1s] interesting fact we're told to consider
[2955.6s] is actually the last book of the Old
[2959.0s] Testament is supposed to be 2 Chronicles
[2961.9s] chapter 36 because it is the one that's
[2965.0s] now speaking about them having left uh
[2968.1s] having left uh Babylon and they're
[2971.7s] rebuilding and it's it's talking about
[2975.5s] um uh them being set free and so
[2979.8s] ultimately you know because the Bible
[2981.2s] was composed by a group of scholars. The
[2984.4s] last book of the Bible nowadays is
[2986.0s] Malachi. But the original order of the
[2988.3s] Old Testament books uh in our day has
[2990.8s] been changed. But originally this is
[2992.3s] where the Old Testament ended with the
[2994.4s] declaration from Cyrus. What is the
[2996.2s] declaration? Perhaps indulge me to read
[2998.4s] it. It says, "All the kingdoms of the
[3000.2s] earth hath the Lord God of heaven given
[3002.2s] me, and he hath charged me to build him
[3004.3s] an house in Jerusalem, which is in
[3007.0s] Judah. Who is there among you of all his
[3010.0s] people? the Lord his God be with him and
[3013.7s] let him go up. That the Old Testament
[3016.1s] ends not with the children of God in
[3018.0s] bondage but rather with a savior uh
[3021.1s] having come and then the New Testament
[3023.7s] begins with now where the type meet the
[3026.4s] antitype. We see Christ now moving in
[3028.6s] the streets of Jerusalem and declaring
[3031.2s] uh the salvation of all mankind. We're
[3033.9s] called to compare the attitude of Cyrus
[3036.9s] with that of Nebuchadnezzar. We see
[3039.0s] Cyrus says what? He acknowledges that
[3042.1s] the his dominion and his power, this
[3044.9s] anglomeration of territories, the
[3046.6s] greatest, the largest ever in history,
[3049.0s] yet he says what? It is the Lord God of
[3052.2s] heaven that has given these things to
[3054.2s] me. Amen. And he has charged me to build
[3056.7s] him a house. Compare with Nebuchadnezzar
[3060.3s] in uh in in in in Daniel chapter 3. We
[3064.0s] see uh Nebuchadnezzar asking for
[3066.3s] worship. We see Nebuchadnezzar being
[3069.1s] pompous and proud. We see Nebuchadnezzar
[3072.2s] eventually the Bible records that
[3074.3s] Nebuchadnezzar had to be humbled and God
[3077.0s] made him do what? Eat grass.
[3079.3s] Nebuchadnezzar was made to eat grass
[3082.6s] like u in in Daniel chapter 4, you know,
[3086.1s] where he raises up his voice and and and
[3088.5s] and and he says, "Is this not Babylon
[3091.3s] the grass that I have built?" that I
[3093.0s] have built you know and he has done so
[3095.2s] many uh many other things there therein
[3098.2s] and so it's speaking to us that indeed
[3100.2s] to a certain extent we can see images of
[3103.6s] the end as we consider the life of Cyrus
[3107.0s] and the work of Christ Amen. Amen. Amen.
[3110.4s] What a beautiful way to end this with
[3112.7s] the Christ who comes to eventually
[3115.2s] deliver his people. After he has passed
[3118.1s] on judgment to these nations, to these
[3121.0s] fallen sisters in this world, his people
[3124.2s] will be delivered. His people will be
[3126.2s] restored to their true city. As Cyrus
[3129.0s] indeed delivered the children of Israel
[3131.4s] and they were restored back to
[3133.0s] Jerusalem, Christ or who was the um
[3137.0s] typified in Cyrus, Christ will come and
[3139.8s] restore us into the new Jerusalem. That
[3143.8s] new city shall descend and we shall be
[3146.3s] put there with our Lord and Savior
[3149.1s] Christ Jesus. Amen. Amen. Amen. I just
[3152.1s] want us to just spend a minute um um or
[3155.2s] so and just give highlights that we have
[3158.1s] heard of this lesson. We have come to
[3159.8s] the end of this quarter um um studying
[3163.4s] illusions. What are some of the
[3164.7s] highlights and please just type in there
[3166.7s] just tell us what is one thing that
[3168.2s] stood out for you that you want to carry
[3170.2s] with you for the rest of the year that
[3171.8s] you will remember this lesson by? What
[3173.8s] are some of those highlights very
[3175.3s] quickly? Uh thank you. So I have three
[3177.4s] highlights. Um uh there were so many
[3179.8s] lessons uh because even there were there
[3182.5s] were actually some things which I was I
[3184.0s] was learning as I was I was trying to
[3185.7s] prepare for uh this panel but the three
[3188.5s] lessons were that really touched me were
[3190.6s] the depth of the many symbols that are
[3192.6s] found in the book of Genesis. Almost in
[3195.0s] fact every single story and every single
[3197.2s] lesson
[3198.8s] had like a wonderful spiritual
[3200.4s] application and it is so clear that
[3203.0s] especially revelation is found in
[3205.1s] Genesis. And my second lesson is
[3207.3s] actually connected to the first that
[3209.2s] revelation isn't just found in Genesis.
[3211.0s] It's found throughout the scriptures.
[3212.7s] Every single week when we're doing some
[3215.2s] other book, you could actually find at
[3217.2s] least sometimes just one symbol or in
[3219.4s] fact huge number of symbols that are
[3222.0s] connected with the book of revelation.
[3224.1s] And it actually tells me it it just
[3226.4s] impressed upon my heart most strongly uh
[3228.8s] that the book of revelation is a book
[3231.0s] that we must read. Amen. In fact, it's
[3232.7s] the only book that really has a blessing
[3234.8s] directly attached to it. Directly
[3236.3s] attached to it. Revelation chapter one.
[3238.3s] All of the scripture has a blessing. But
[3240.0s] Revelation has a a blessing attached
[3242.1s] specifically to the reading of the
[3243.7s] reading of the book. Yeah. So, uh uh it
[3245.8s] is not an obscure book. It's a book that
[3247.5s] if you're studying the rest of the
[3248.8s] scriptures, you find wonderful
[3250.6s] applications and wonderful explanations
[3252.9s] of all the symbols inside. And then
[3254.8s] lastly, uh I was actually impressed with
[3257.8s] how much depth there is in the Psalms.
[3260.6s] It wasn't apparent to me especially when
[3262.9s] I was reading because I'm the one who
[3264.7s] took us through Psalm 4046
[3267.4s] um when we went and saw the contrast
[3269.1s] that was present. It was actually
[3270.6s] lovely. You know I am not a fan of
[3272.3s] poetry. I like things that are much more
[3274.3s] plain and you know clear but it was
[3276.1s] actually wonderful seeing it and taking
[3278.4s] time to meditate upon the wonderful
[3280.0s] lessons found there. Amen. Amen. We
[3282.6s] praise God. What about you brother
[3284.3s] Rafael? What will you take with you for
[3286.5s] this quarter? And I just remind you,
[3288.8s] please type for us so that we can also
[3290.5s] see the things that you picked up, we
[3292.1s] probably didn't pick up that excite you
[3294.2s] about this quarter's lesson. Indeed, for
[3296.8s] me, what I what I what I what really um
[3301.5s] got to me is in essence the title of the
[3305.0s] lesson itself, illusions, images,
[3307.2s] symbols, how to study Bible prophecy. It
[3309.9s] simply tells me that it reinforces the
[3313.0s] notion that uh that that there is
[3316.4s] intelligence
[3318.0s] and design in everything. Amen. You see
[3321.0s] even the way God applies various
[3324.2s] stylistic devices to package his
[3326.1s] messages across various uh authors and
[3329.9s] and and and prophets and kings and and
[3333.1s] all these examples and the way God
[3334.7s] secures and hides the truth in in
[3337.0s] wonderful language that is at the same
[3340.2s] time simple for those who are seekers of
[3342.7s] truth to understand. And so it's simply
[3345.3s] uh telling us that that sometimes you
[3347.5s] know there are certain texts in the
[3348.6s] Bible that people have looked at and
[3350.3s] they've said what exactly they find like
[3352.6s] revelation is difficult. They they
[3354.1s] wonder what type of animals are this.
[3356.2s] But then you realize if you look at at
[3359.0s] at other in other areas in the Bible you
[3361.7s] realize that God has actually used
[3364.2s] animals to represent what to represent
[3366.0s] nations and all that. That that the mind
[3367.8s] of God is beautiful. That the mind of
[3369.8s] God is creative. The mind of God
[3373.4s] sometimes also calls upon us to sort of
[3376.0s] interact with it to decode it. There's
[3377.8s] it's there's an aspect of adventure. You
[3379.5s] know, when we were kids and you're
[3381.0s] playing detective, you know, you you you
[3382.7s] you're doing some sort of Sherlock
[3383.9s] Holmes, but here, you know, it's it's
[3385.9s] very it's it's it's it's very nice and
[3387.7s] and very very interesting and to come to
[3389.9s] a conclusion and to see the full picture
[3392.0s] of truth and the way God leads and has
[3394.2s] led his church and the way he has sealed
[3395.6s] the truth so nicely. Even Daniel at some
[3397.5s] point is told, "Seal up those words
[3399.8s] because they are for the time of the
[3401.2s] end." The intricacies of of of of God
[3404.3s] and his messages and how he has opened
[3407.0s] opened them up in these last days speaks
[3409.4s] to me beyond science that indeed there
[3412.3s] is an intelligent being who is guiding
[3415.2s] us and leading us and we can trust him.
[3417.5s] Amen. Amen. Amen. We praise God. And
[3421.1s] you're looking forward to the next
[3422.7s] quarter. I invite you to join us as well
[3425.4s] to study the next quarter. Um it's an
[3428.2s] exciting lesson. I am particularly um
[3431.5s] thrilled that we will be studying the
[3433.7s] book of Exodus. You know when you think
[3436.2s] about the book of Exodus, many people
[3438.2s] just think of the journey of Israel. Let
[3441.1s] me tell you, you need to join us again
[3443.2s] because the book of Exodus is filled
[3445.4s] with so much truth. It's not about just
[3448.9s] the journey of Israel. The book of
[3450.6s] Exodus is about God himself. It is the
[3454.6s] place where God finally revealed himself
[3457.0s] in ways we had never seen before. As a
[3460.6s] matter of fact, in the book of Exodus
[3462.9s] 6:3, he writes and says um when he's
[3466.1s] talking to Moses, he says, "I appeared
[3467.8s] unto Abraham and unto Isaac and unto
[3471.2s] Jacob by the name of God Almighty, but
[3474.2s] by my name Jehovah was I not known to
[3477.9s] them." God finally reveals himself as
[3481.0s] Jehovah in the book of Exodus. Even
[3483.6s] Isaac, Abraham, Jacob had not seen God
[3486.6s] in this way. It is the to the children
[3488.8s] of Israel that God revealed himself. The
[3491.4s] Bible says in the book of Isaiah 40:9
[3495.1s] that in the last days the message that
[3497.4s] is going to be proclaimed by us is the
[3500.0s] message behold your God. The book of
[3503.4s] Exodus is inviting you to come now and
[3505.9s] behold the character of your God. He is
[3510.2s] very well revealed right here in the
[3512.5s] book of Exodus. I look forward to
[3514.2s] studying with you and I please uh stay
[3516.9s] tuned for the public campus ministry
[3518.8s] Sabbath. God bless you and thank you for
[3521.6s] joining us today. Um I will ask you to
[3524.7s] kindly pray with us even as we close.
[3526.9s] Thank you. Let's uh be reverent as we
[3528.9s] pray. Heavenly Father, we are so
[3531.2s] grateful not merely that you have led us
[3533.3s] through uh this lesson um but that you
[3536.6s] have also led us through all the lessons
[3538.0s] to this point. There are so many
[3539.7s] wonderful uh messages that you have
[3541.7s] given to us. Um all of us because all of
[3544.4s] us have been participating together as
[3546.5s] we are going together through the
[3547.8s] scriptures. Uh bless us and keep us as
[3550.5s] we meditate upon the themes that we have
[3552.4s] studied and as we seek to keep them and
[3554.7s] also as we are entering into um uh uh
[3558.1s] the next coming lesson. May you also
[3559.8s] guide us as you have guided us before in
[3561.9s] Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen.