Title: Lesson 11 ||  Ruth and Esther || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: a0o2IOWrhws
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a0o2IOWrhws
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you so much for joining us today at New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth Gong Avenue for our weekly Sabbath school lesson study. I'm excited about this lesson. Especially today, we've been studying illusions, symbols that God uses to help us understand Bible prophecy and especially as it is relevant for us in these last days. This week we will be studying Ruth and Esther and we welcome you to study with us. Through this week, we have been going through the women's week of prayer and our theme has been cravings of the soul. It is my desire that even as we go through these studies and as we prepare for this particular Sabbath that we will have a deeper craving for the word of God and for Christ himself. You know David writes and says in the book of Psalms that as the deer pants for the water so does my soul p for you. It is my prayer that God will create such a hunger and a thirst in our hearts for his word as we study it today. So that with David together we can exclaim that indeed our hearts and our souls are panting for our God to study with us today. I am joined by two panelists. I would like them to introduce themselves before we pray. Kindly let's start from your side. My name is Enongo Rafael. It's a pleasure to be with all of you. Thank you for joining us. Uh thank you. My name is Jafet Rono. Pleasure. Thank you. And my name is Jess Rono. Thank you for joining us today. Um I'll ask my husband to pray with us as we begin the study today. Can be prayed. Thank you. Let's pray. Everlasting Redeemer, we are so grateful that you have been um uh uh blessing us thus far over the course of um the lesson studies. You have really uh filled us with your spirit and taught us many lessons. Uh we would like to discuss Ruth and Esther. We ask that your holy spirit give us more insight and understanding that Jesus Christ may be glorified by every single verse and every single lesson that we uh pick here in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. You know throughout this week we've been looking at different characters, different women in the Bible and we have explored several of them. And today it's very interesting that we are also highlighting two other women in the Bible, Ruth and Esther. Very powerful stories that reveal to us the grace of God despite a backsliding people, despite a sinful nation, despite a sinful people. We see the grace of God especially revealed in the lives of Esther and Ruth. And today as we begin I want us to read our key text starting from um um um coming to us from the book of Esther 5:2. Uh brother Raphael kindly read that for us. Reading from the King James version it says and it was so when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court that she obtained favor in his sight. And the king held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. So Esther drew near and touched the top of the scepter. I don't know if there's I I think almost all the women that I know have a particular uh relationship with Esther and Ruth in the Bible. When they go to Esther, they'll probably go on and talk about Esther, this beautiful woman who was loved by the king. And some of them even use the book of Esther to defend um wear I mean putting on of makeup and wearing of jewelry. When people go to the book of Ruth, they see an a beautiful illustration of love and people have used um the book of the story of Ruth and Boas to typify their wedding themes and people have been excited with the idea of saying this is my Ruth or this is my this is my Boaz and it's very exciting that even as we come to this um Bible study today, we need to remember that God has put within these two stories, very important lessons that relate to us who are living in these last days. And I want us to go to each of these stories. We'll start with the story of Ruth. Lay out the context and look at the symbols that exist here, the illusions that are in this book that typify what will happen to the children of God in the last days. Um maybe I will start um with you. Just give us the context. what is happening in the book of Ruth as the as the story opens up in chapter one actually the context of the book of Ruth is actually the book of judges that um Ruth um and the and the rest are actually living during the time of the judges and um almost I can say like the the summary text of the book of judges is actually the very last verse um it's it's in the second chapter of the book book of judges you find this theme but this last verse just um it summarizes it so perfectly Judges 21 25 it says in those days there was no king in Israel and every man did that which was right in his own eyes and unfortunately within this setting within the setting of a backsliden nation we actually find the story of Ruth so you find that um within that setting you find that Ruth um and Naomi um actually the it's actually that Naomi and her husband Elimc are living in Bethlehem. Now, what does Bethlehem mean? House of bread. House of bread. Now, within this house of bread, there is an unfortunate famine that takes place. Ironically, ironically, yeah. Ruth chapter 1 from verse 1 to5, you find that they have a famine. They're afflicted. Now, we could not say that the famine came to them because of their transgression. Because even Christ said that there were some people who were living um and a tower fell on them and it could not have been just because that they were wicked. Cuz um um sometimes bad things happen to good people. But the fact is that Israel was a backsliding and a backsliding people and and uh Naomi and Elimc they they left their land where they supposed to um inhabit and they went into the land of Moab. Now within the land of Moab, their sons in verse two, Malon and Chileon, they found two um wives. Maybe before we go into um their their sons, what was God's instruction when there is famine in the land? What was God's instruction to the children of Israel? When you see famine in the land, when there's calamities such as famine, what was the instruction to the children of Israel? What were they meant to do? Yes, actually the instruction is found in the book of Deuteronomy chapter 28. We are told um the first few verses of Deuteronomy 28 Moses speaking he says that um if you are faithful then 100% God will be very faithful and especially to Israel God was trying to manifest them that he was their signal king you know and he was their leader um and so he would bless them abundantly he said you know like sometimes armies would come um in in um in one united force and then they would disperse seven ways that every single place they go to they would even be inhabiting ter to belong to other people you know that they would just eat um from trees that they did not even plant but then on the other hand if they are unfaithful and then it's I think it's from verse 14 onwards um all the way to verse 50 something 55 56 you find a a a a a litany of curses why because of unfaithfulness and then they were told in chapter 21 29 of Deuteronomy that once they find themselves in that state once they found themselves in in E in this example as a nation they must go back to God. They must humble themselves. In fact what Moses says they must circumcise the foreskin of their hearts. Deuteronomy 29 that they must circumcise the foreskin of their hearts. They must in contrition accept that they had sinned and then go back. Now in this particular case uh the whole of the book of judges is about uh almost one one endless uh cycle of idolatry and transgression. But they never do that. going back to God. They don't go back to God. They don't we don't see El Naomi going back to God and saying, "God, we are repenting. If my people who are called by my name, come back to me and they repent of their sins, then I will heal their land." That's not what they chose to do. They chose to do that which was right in their own eyes. They left and went to another land other than turning back to God and actually praying. So, yeah. And as a result, just one quick thing, as a result, the sons end up marrying something that God had forbidden. He had forbidden because he knew um and and in truth, we we know what happens in the end of Ruth. And that's wonderful. But then that's an exception. Generally, what would happen is if you enter into the world, almost always the world will will ensnare and and may unfortunately ultimately take you. It just happens went on even further to disobey God's command and married other foreign women. Yes. Yes. Which in the book of Utronomy is consistently forbidden because of the false religion. Not because God doesn't care about race or tribe. He doesn't care about that. It's about the false religion and the false gods that they would bring in. People who are who are uh doing that which is right in their own eyes. They have left the place where they are supposed to be bread. But because of of of farming in that land, they move instead of seeking God, they move to go to a different land. What happens to Naomi and her family? We've been told one day marry an uh foreign wives. But what happens? Indeed. It reminds me of a of a saying which is quite prominent amongst Africans that Africa is ours and uh and African problems, you know, how to sort them. you know it see it seems as if um as if um this particular family decided to take matters into their own hand. I remember at the dedication of the temple um one of the things that one of the prayers there that comes from that chapter is if my people which are called by my name will humble themselves themselves and then I will do what and pray I will hear and I will open and I will and there will be so many blessings and so I think the lesson for us here is that each calamity each difficulty is an opportunity for us to go back to God to retrace our steps and to and to commit ourselves to him and so eventually the Bible records as this man uh this man and his family move and and go we're told in verse three Elime eventually died and she's left with her two sons so she's widowed and then verse four says they end up marrying women of Moab one was Orfa and the other one was Ruth and they dwell there about 10 years clearly way after it's indicated way after the fine even has has has ended It's not that God is against refugees because Christ himself was a refugee at after after his birth when Herod was and he moved to Egypt but it was a time they were told to go back. The children of Israel under uh by Joseph went to Egypt and then they were they were brought back after after a particular time but these people were so comfortable. It is only when calamity hits. Bible records in verse 5, Malon and Chillon died also both of them and the woman was left with her two sons and her husband. Then there arose with her daughters-in-law that she might return to the country of Moab, for she had heard in the country of Moab how the Lord had visited his people in giving them. So it was calamity after calamity. the father, then the two sons. It must have been very painful. And you're in a foreign land. That's the imagine. I remember I don't know. I don't know whether it's it's still the same. More often than not, relationships between mother-in-laws and daughter-in-laws are can be quite um quite difficult. So, she moves from being a one with a husband to being a widow with with sons. Then the sons marry. Then eventually her sons die and she's left with her daughters-in-law. But uh and then eventually it's just things are just difficult and she decides now it's time to go back. It's time to go back. Um I think very interesting with what happens with this daughters-in-law. Maybe just speak to us about this and tell us what was um Ruth's desire. Actually maybe before we we go there, let me just hold that thought. Um let's just come back to her reaction. This has happened to her. How does she react? How does she perceive all these calamities? So she she hears that the Lord has visited his people in giving them bread. And so she realizes she's struggling in Moab. Now technically everything that mattered to her uh around her is no longer there and now she remembers home. She remembers a familiar street and she realizes why should she suffer here? It's almost like she has a prodigal son moment after spending everything in riotous living. In this particular case, after all that she held dear and close to her have have left. Now she decides to go back home. And then uh in verse 7 it says, "Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was and her two daughters-in-law with her and they went on their way to return to the land of the land of Judah." And then she turns to them in verse 8 and she tells them, "Return each of you to your mother's house. The Lord deal kindly with you as you have dealt with with as as ye have dealt with the dead and with me. He says she is basically saying the way you've treated me and the way you treated my sons may may the Lord uh equally uh be kind to you. And then continues and asks prays to them prays for them to find rest. You know each one in in the house of her husband she kisses them and they lifted up their voice and they wept. Interesting um in-law relationship. And then uh they said to her, "Surely we will return with thee unto thy people." And Naomi said, "Turn again, my daughters." She insists again and says she's yet she doesn't have any more sons in her womb uh that they may be your husbands. And then she she really tries to to to tell them to go away. Um but it says uh she tells them even if I was to get a son, she I'm I'm truncating it's not possible for them for you to wait for them until they grow. And um she ends and says, "For it gaveth me much for your sakes, that the hand of the Lord is gone out against me." In verse 13, she blames God for her misfortune. She says, "Things have just been terrible. We we had to move because of femine. We moved. My husband died. My children have died. I've struggled here. I'm going back. I don't have anything. I am hopeless as as literally you guys go back. Clearly, I am cast. there's something wrong with me. God is not happy. The hand of God has gone against me. And I think as we pause there, you know, people people will read the story of of of uh Naomi and say, "God must be a very bad God." People actually would read this and say, "How can God allow all this to happen to one woman?" But of course, you were given the context, you know, uh people who did not people were doing that which was right in their own eyes. Despite all this, God still remembers and visits his children and brings what brings bread in this land. Let's just unpack this about blaming God for the consequences of our own actions and who is actually the true person who afflicts God's children. Is it God who afflicts them? Who is the true person behind our afflictions? Indeed, I think uh that's a very uh poignant point that you that you that you that you you're drawing out and um it's a place of God in our in our suffering. But the reality is more often than not a great chunk of our suffering is as a result of our own doing is a result of the choices that we've made and more often than not choices out of disobedience. choices uh that we make where we distrust God and we doubt his hand and his power to provide for us. When we decide to take matters into our own hands, more often than not, sometimes we we dig our own graves. When the devil beguiles us and and and indeed it is the devil who in John 10:10 strives to steal, to kill, and to destroy. But God, he says he has come that we might have life and have it in abundance. The plan of God in our lives is for us to live abundant abundant lives, for us to live good lives. But even the story of um of of of um of uh the wheat and the tears eventually the question is asked what's happening here? Why why is why is why have things spoiled? Then the answer is what an enemy has done this. An enemy has done this. And so uh sometimes we we are very quick to blame God because I think we have understood that God is powerful. You know, but we have not understood that there's another power on the opposite end of the of the great controversy who equally if we play into his hands can can ruin our lives. Yes. And bring suffering and pain. And so Ruth during this uh very trying period um her name actually which means pleasant um cries out in bitterness and she says um from now on my name will be called Mara. Me bitterness. bitterness. Bitterness toward God because we we want to blame God for the misfortunes that come upon us. Yet actually it is God who wants to redeem us. It is God who wants to save us. It is God who wants to restore us. Just talk to us about Ruth's desire to follow God despite despite uh Naomi's tantrum so to speak or despite uh Naomi's affliction, despite Naomi blaming God, what is Ruth's reaction? Yes. So Ruth actually says that um she will refuse to leave. Um Ruth chapter 1 verse um um verse uh verse 15. Verse 15. Uh uh actually this is when when when uh uh Ruth actually makes a proclamation says that your people shall be my people. Verse 16. And your God shall be my God. refusing to leave uh Naomi and in and instead actually understanding the incredible value um of the life that Naomi had been living, unwilling to go back to um what Ruth um in her past and and and like I think we should appreciate that Ruth is making this decision knowing like not knowing that there are good things in the future like us in hindsight we can see in hindsight we can read like some chapters in the future and we can see wonderful things that exist. Yeah. Yeah, as far as she's concerned, there is Naomi and then there is the God that Naomi worship worship. Amen. And and and that was sufficient for her that she was willing to make a drastic change in her life. Um all because of what she had witnessed in the life of number one in the life of Naomi, but number two in the God that she had seen. It's interesting maybe if I was to interject, imagine I remember uh when we were when I was a bit younger, I'm a bit wiser now, I'd like to believe. um we would always seek for advice from those who are successful you know you you almost want to emulate them. I remember the time people this book think big and then almost everybody wanted to be a neurosurgeon you know everybody desired all children wanted to be a neurosurgeon. Now similarly consider Naomi and Ruth Naomi is somebody who by for all intents and purposes it seems like her life is in shambles. She she doesn't have her things together. It seems as if even the god that she's worshiping is not a faithful god. It's a wrong god. But then imagine now Ruth comes in fact in verse 15 it says behold she says behold your sister this is orpha is gone back unto her people and unto her gods. Return thou after thy sisterin-law. It's even saying like that separation in and of itself is not only uh it's not only physical but it's also spiritual that they moving away from this god who has not been faithful. Even Naomi herself says it seems as if the lord is what the lord is gone out against me. And in an age and in a time in which we want we like to copy uh the secret to success. If we see your god is not doing it for you surely then for a fact let's go where it seems people are making it. Let's go to that church where there are miracles. Let's go to that church where people plant uh and and and they harvest uh greatly, you know. And so, but Ruth makes a very a very I think it's a very difficult decision in my mind to follow somebody who is quote unquote considered a failure. Somebody who themselves they have given up. They have said the Lord has left me. But then Ruth says your God shall be my God. This God who has forsaken you. This God who has brought so much calamity in in in her eyes tells us of the faith of Ruth and the fidelity of Ruth to the mother-in-law. Amen. Amen. And I think I I think even if Naomi is complaining and very bitter at this time, there must have been enough of God in her that Ruth saw and said still even despite all this, this is the God that I want to follow. I just want to pause and ask um you my brother or sister who is watching us. Do people despite the circumstances in your life, do people see enough of God in your life that they say, "I want to follow the God that you serve. I want to follow the God whom you worship despite all that is going within your around your life. I want to follow that God." And now Ruth turns back with the with with Naomi and they go back to the land of Judah. um talk to us about um the um Boaz as a kinsman and his relationship especially today um with Christ as our redeemer. Indeed. Um Jafet, would you like to take it? Oh, sure. Uh so we actually find uh in the book of Ruth chap 2:5-20 we find um as um a very interesting story that actually indicates the kind of kindness that Buas had that um it was it was first a command in the scriptures um I think it is uh in the in in in the first five books of the of Moses you find God commanding that there are some gleanings that should be left for those ones who are poor. Poor will always be among you. Therefore, when you harvest, don't harvest everything. Leave a few things so that the poor will come and glean. Yes. And Leviticus 25:25, if one of your brethren becomes poor and has sold some of his possessions, and if his redeeming relative comes to redeem it, then he may redeem what his brother sold. Yes. Okay. Yeah. But but but now that's like after now like once it is clear that Boaz is is is a kinsman but even before then Boaz was still kind enough to not just allow um um Ruth to receive gleings but even more than enough. Yeah. And then um once Naomi actually figures out that Boaz actually is a kinsman then clearly it actually opens the door first of all for Naomi to get back what was dispossessed of her, what was was lost. and and and now I think we can infer that Naomi could see that there was a path forward for Ruth. It's interesting what you say. I think it tells us about the the government of God. Do do you find like I remember reading a story about uh people being killed or being hurt for picking pineapples along Thick Road uh on the Del Monte farm. But literally in God's economy, you were told that it is it is allowed for a stranger to enter into your farm as long as they were hungry and to eat. The the thing that wasn't allowed is for them to take too much. Yeah. But enough to sustain them was was adequate. It just tells it speaks to me about the mind of God if he was to structure and organize society. Imagine how how um poverty, recklessness, rather wretchedness and difficulty uh how how the masses will be suited, how everybody will be taken care of. It's interesting. Very very nice thought. At the very least, there would always be like a flow like a flow like below which no one could have could could go beneath and you would have a very strong system of social welfare at a time when they there's no there's no advanced economic theory like this. It's actually it shows you how far advanced the system God's thinking is. Even Christ himself benefited at some point as he was walking his disciples. Disciples I mean they picked some wheat along the way. But continue. Okay. Christ did not pick the disciples did. The disciples did. Okay. All right. Tell us about the uh tell us about Boaz being the king's man. So the Bible records in uh Ruth 2 and verse one and Naomi had a kingsman of her husbands a mighty man of wealth. M that's something if the Bible says you're mighty not in strength it says a mighty man of wealth of the family of Elime and his name was Boaz. And so uh it tells us eventually the story that Jaffet was talking about Ruth the Moabites now says let me go to the field and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her go my daughter. So she's technically they've now been reduced quote unquote I would say like beggars. Yeah. They're technically beggars, you know, and and and because if you're searching for the gleanings um in in a stranger's farm, then 100% you are. And the gleanings are after they've been harvested. These are things you you maybe they they forgot something here. They forgot something that depending depending on how thorough they were and how converted they were. Yes. Yes. So you see and so it's it's it's it's really difficult. And then she says she's going and then as she goes the Bible records she went and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers and her hap was to light on a part of the field belonging unto Boaz who was the kindred. And so um as the result of it all was um Boaz asks asks the question in verse 5, whose dam damsel is this? And then they say this is a Moabitetish damsel that came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab. Like she's first identified by her ethnicity, a Moabitetish damsel. The children of Israel had laws against marrying foreigners. You know, the story of of Boaz is is is quite interesting. Boaz as a kinsman redeemer. It's quite powerful. He not only redeems um uh his uh the household of of of a relative but redeems it in a state that would have been deemed unworthy a moitish woman you know of all the women uh and I would like to believe uh Boaz was single Boaz was a bachelor an eligible bachelor wealthy and he goes for a widower a widow who's not even of the stock of Israel. What type of faith is this? See how God weaves the fabric of humanity and and brings relationships together. And so he continues and says eventually she said uh they repeat they repeat uh what what has what had happened. Um and then verse 8 says then Bo said unto Ruth, "Hearest thou not my daughter. Go not to glean in another field, neither go from hence, but abide here first by my maidens." He even like tells her stay with the ladies, you know, stay with the ladies. Don't the men may be a bit rough and things like that. And so eventually he does come through and eventually they realize that this guy is actually a kingsman. A kingsman and he decides he's willing to step up and to and to redeem as we as we looked at Leviticus 25 verse 25. And um but we are told as uh you shall show us eventually he was the second in line or somebody who qualified more. Tell us about who was closer than Boas. Yeah. So there was um a kinsman who was actually closer than Boas. And the interesting part is actually the the typology of what that represents. I think throughout we've actually seen the description of Ruth and Naomi as as a kind of typology of our state that we have also been dispossessed. Adam and Eve in Eden were dispossessed of of of what was rightfully their own. the dominion. The dominion and ultimately it was it um it was received by one who you could say was uh a close kinsman of human of of of humanity who is the one who had um like all that territory which was the whole earth and everything that was um belonging to Adam and Eve it all fell to to the devil unfortunately. This sounds very very strange but first of all in the book of Job chapter 1 verse 6 onwards you find uh uh the devil walking up and down you actually find um to show that he owns the territory. It's like when God told Abraham whatever you set your foot on that land I shall give it to you. So the devil sets his foot because it is his land. Yes. But even more strongly, first of all, the devil himself says in Matthew 4:8 um verse um 89 that he says himself that all these things have been given to to me. Christ himself calls the devil what? The prince of this world that he understands that there's a sense in which the devil has ownership of this world. Ultimately that is not the case. But there's a a temporary and a special sense. Even in the book of Jude chapter 1 vers9 when when when um uh Moses the the body of Moses was about to be resurrected there was a contention between Jesus Christ and the devil. Jude 1:9 Why is that? Because the devil had a sense in which he had there was a sense of ownership that he had over every single person who was a sinner who was e um in effect like um in effect after his own stock you could say. Um even in Luke 22:31 you have this constant um idea in the scriptures that the closest kinsman quote unquote is actually the devil. Yeah. And I wouldn't say because um as with all metaphors all metaphors eventually break at some point like for instance the metaphor of Christ being the lamp Christ does not chew card you know or have four foots. So h that close kinsman in the case of Ruth and Naomi was not an evil person. It's but there's there's a there's there's um a sense in which Boaz being a type of Christ um he he he took that inheritance that could have gone to the one who was a closer kinsman who um um at that time was um the individual who um eventually relinquished the claims to Boaz. Yeah. So I just want to understand that that metaphor is is a soft metaphor. It is not a strong You understand what I'm saying? It's not a hard metaphor. It's a it's a it's a soft metaphor. It's a it's a it's the it's the it's at the discretion of the lesson writer. Yes. Yes. Yes. I I I just like to read um the book of Ezekiel um chapter 37 from verse 21. Um, and the Bible says, "And say unto them, thus saith the Lord God, behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the heathen, whether they be gone, and will gather them on every side, and will bring them into their own land." You know, it's almost a clear description of what happened to the family of Naomi, those who had gone to the land of the heathen. And typifying us who are right now living in the land of the heathen in the sense that this world belongs to to the devil. He is the prince of the air as Paul writes and says and it continues on to say and I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel and one king shall be king to them all and they shall be no more two nations neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms anymore at all. Verse 23 says, "Neither shall they defile themselves anymore with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with their transgressions, but I will save them out of all their dwelling places, wherein they have sinned, and I will cleanse them, so they shall be my people, and I will be their God." In the same way, Boaz typifying Christ redeemed Ruth and in that sense actually brought relief to Naomi. Christ says, "I will also gather my people the same way he gathered Naomi back to himself. I am going to gather my people and I will heal them. I will cleanse their sin and I will become their God. They will become my people." And ultimately to at the end of the world, that is what God is going to do to his people. At the end he call he calls out and says my people come out of Babylon. Come out of the land of the heathen. Come out of the land of Moab where you have gone to dwell and draw back to the land of Judah and I will redeem you. Our boas is in the land of Judah. God promises to redeem us from the one who has greater claims on us even even the devil. I want us to swiftly move to cover the story of Ruth. I think I mean to cover the story of of of Esther and just talk about again God's desire to save his his people and to redeem them in these last days. And I want us to start by covering the context. Why is Esther um living in this land at this particular time? Just give us very brief briefly give us the context um my brother. What is Esther doing there? Um in a very short period of time. I think uh Esther belongs to a people who had uh what uh in psychology they they say uh when you are too attached to your captor, you know. Um uh they call it Stockholm syndrome syndrome. Stockholm syndrome. The children of Israel, we we find Daniel praying for them after 70 years. That's how long they were supposed to be in captivity in Babylon. Then when the mids and the persians came eventually Darius at saxus and many other kings gave but eventually they gave the Cyrus also but dur success eventually the success allows the Jews to go back and to rebuild because they studied the scriptures and they realized that God had actually been leading them as a nation and this was the desire of God for for them and so but we're told there are some Jews who had gotten comfortable in captivity and this uh is a stalk which um who are now captured in this story. Yes. So Esther is is not living in in in in in in this land uh because in the land of Assyria because she is happy because she is exiled. It's she's actually a backslider. She's a backsliding Jew. She was supposed to be in Jerusalem but she happens she has supposed to have gone back to rebuild but she happens to be living in this land. The Jews are living in this and in the comforts. They in the comforts of of the land of the land of captivity. So was Esther was Esther faithful then? Was Esther are faithful? So that's number one. She was not faithful because that command uh to go and rebuild back home and rebuild. Number one, Mah and Esther failed to to abide by it. But then number two also um in the book of Esther chapter 1 um verse 10 and 11 you find that you could say Esther's predecessor whose name was Queen Vashi when there was a great ball everyone was drunk and then Queen Vashi was supposed to go and present herself and I think the Bible uses very nice language to describe something which was most likely a very not nice and very lwd thing when it says uh the command of the king Esther 1 11 bring Vashi the queen before the king with the crown royal to show the people and the princess her beauty for she was fair to look upon. In fact um onwards we find that Vashi was actually a very noble woman who refused that um command and and as a result was was basically dispossessed of that throne of of of that position. Now Esther and um a a a selection of maybe I don't know the top bachelorets I can say of all of the kingdom of um um of this king they were all put together in one particular place yes yeah you could say that and and in Esther 2:12 to 14 you actually find what happened to every single one of these ladies we were told um in verse 13 and 14 thus h came every maiden unto the king. And whatsoever she desired was given her to go with her out of the house of the women into the king's house. And in the evening she went, and on the moral she returned into the second house of the women, to the custody of Shashgaz, the king's chamberlain, which kept the concubines, and she came in unto the king no more, except the king delighted in her, and that she and and and that she was called by name. Now, I am certain that they are not doing a study of the book of Daniel or chess or something like that. Clearly, this is not right. As a Jewish young lady, they know this is contrary to God's principles 100%. It is 100% a a a an an unJewish, you could say, behavior. But clearly, this same woman who number one did not give heed to the voice of God to go with her people. Number two, is clearly engaging in something which a noble woman called Vashi refused. So, um and was not even a Jew. Yes. So I'm not saying that Esther was like a you know e evil whatever whatever I'm saying that Esther was a backsliden was a backsliden Jew was a backsliden Jew and it's even interesting even in verse 20 it says that she lived among them and they she did not even reveal that she was a Jew that means Esther did not dress like a Jew they did not know she was a Jew did not eat like how quickly did everyone knew Daniel was different he ate like a Jew Esther did not eat like a Jew did not dress like a Jew. In fact, she speak like a Jew. She beat the non Jews in the in the pant. Exactly. Exactly. So Esther cannot be our example of saying but Esther did this, Esther did that, Esther. This story is so powerful because it reveals the grace of God to a backsliden people. Let us just see how this grace of God is being uh is being revealed. Tell us about Hammon's plot um in this story which is actually the biggest part of the book of Esther. Indeed, the Bible records that in chapter 5 of Esther that there's a gentleman called Hammon uh uh sorry um rather it begins in um in chapter three pardon me in chapter 3 there's a gentleman called Hammon one of the princes but he is elevated and as a result of this elevation the king decrees and we must we must also understand that they're amongst the Mids and the Persians the Mids and the Persians the king's decree was like was like the word of God, it does not change. It does not change. It's like uh it's it's up there with the ten commandments. You know, the way God says, "I am the Lord your God, I change not." The word of the of a king uh amongst the mid and the Persians holds fast. That's why even Daniel had to go into the tomb of in the den of lions. Even though the king was even though the king was was regretful of his decree, but because he had said it and so the king elevates Hammon and he says uh and and he says Hmon should be given what? Respect. But then what happens in verse two? All the king's servants that were in the king's gate bowed and reverenced Hammon. For the king had so commanded concerning him, but Modi bowed not nor had reverence for him. And then when the when the question was asked, why does it why is it doing this? It realizes it was told them in verse verse four. For he told them that he was what? A Jew. Jew. He would have no other god except uh the god of uh Israel. the God who who is the creator, the one true God, um Yahweh. And so as a result of this, Hmon now has something against Jews. Um the same way sometimes one person hurts you and then you take you hate a whole tribe, you know. Uh it's interesting these things did not start uh recently. But eventually he decides he lays a plot to destroy the Jews. He lays a plot to destroy the Jews and he convinces the king to make a law that eventually threatens the very lives of Jews. Just tell us about um what this typifies in the um in the last days. Hammon's plot against the Jews and the decree that goes out in and how uh which decree we will see in the last days. Yes. So in the book of Esther 3:6 you find a decree a death decree that all um wherefore Hmon sought to destroy all the Jews that were throughout the whole kingdom of even the people of Modka. In fact later on you find it is at a specific date that that decree is given. In the book of um Revelation 12 from verse um um 14-17, you actually find a power that is also similarly seeking to attack and destroy God's people. Um Revelation 12, we are told um from verse um 12, we're told, "Wherefore rejoice ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them, woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the and the sea. For the devil is come down unto you having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath by a short time." And then verse 17 we are told the dragon was angry with the woman and went to make war with the rem remnant of her seed who keep the commandments of God like being a Jew and have the testimony of Jesus. And then Revelation 13:15 we are told specifically how the devil wants to attack gospel in the last days. We are told and he has power to give life unto the image of the beast that the image of the beast should both speak and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed. and and you actually see that that death decree and like I actually saw the paral himself did not actually have the authority to do the things he wanted to do. We if you read the book of Exodus especially chapter four chapter 5 you see that how many seeks after the ring of the king chapter three. Yeah chapter three. So actually with the ring of the king he can actually start enforcing and using it as a stamp and say a by the voice of Ashwaris this is what the king of Pia says ABCD and you actually find the same thing here that it is not that that that that that this power actually works through proxy and receives power to actually achieve its ends. similarly and we actually find a very strong similarity and and the same way that um Esther will actually go through the study shortly. You um the same way Esther and her people were were vindicated and saved is the same way we know that in in in these last days God's people will also be vindicated and saved. Amen. Amen. Um let's just talk about how God's people were delivered in the case of Hmon and Modi. Indeed. Um Hammon plots and says um comes to the king and says that these people do not keep um do not do not obey. He says there is a certain people scattered in verse 8 abroad and dispersed among the people in all the provinces of the kingdom and their laws are diverse from all people. Neither keep they the king's laws. Therefore it is not for the king's profit to suffer them. And he says make a law that they may be destroyed. and he says he will even fund this this this this this endeavor. Then in chapter four we told Modci perceived all that was done. He rents his clothes and he goes towards he goes to visit uh this adopted daughter of his. Okay. Um cuz they're told he took her in like he was her daughter. And and when when Esther is told that Modkai is is around and he's removed his um he's removed his clothes, he says um he sends that uh clothes should be given to him and eventually Modi gives uh is gets an audience uh with the queen on the throne at this particular point who is Esther. And he speaks to them and um uh and Modi gives this statement that we have we we we have known and we we have uh quoted many a time. Verse 13 says, "Then Modi commanded to answer Esther, think not with thyself that thou shalt escape in the king's house more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. And who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time, such a time as this? Amen. And so he he he sort of um gives um uh Esther a pep talk, I would say, to inspire her, to give um um to to motivate her to make a decision. And and and and he tells her salvation will come, but it's perhaps possible that in God's divine mind that it was supposed to come through you. The question is, will you live up to the moment? And the the fact is that Esther eventually goes goes to the king and is able to do what? He's able now to pass another decree. Not that to remove the other one. The other one still stands, but now the decree says the Jews can do whatves can defend themselves. They're given a chance to to a fighting chance. And it is through this agency that the Jews now eventually are rescued. Tell us about when the death decree in the last days. What will be the issue about in the last days? I know you mentioned it is worship but what specifically when it go when the death decree goes out and how does God deliver his people? How does God deliver his people? Amen. So the death decree um in Revelation 13:15 we read was actually about um those who do not um have worship the beast or his image or and actually later in in verse 15 you actually find or even have the mark on his forehead. So you actually find the death decree has to do with worship and has to do with the mark of the beast. And what is the mark of the beast in this case? The mark of the beast in this case is that signal or author like authoritative system or so um the authoritative thing that the beast has and from the scriptures it is clear um a a study I think we've actually had it um over some some of the last few weeks uh this beast power is none other than the papal system the inheritor of the Roman Empire and all the systems of Babylon and things of that nature and the mark of the papacy is none other than Sunday sacredness which and it's actually a mark that the papacy actually boasts of. Um in fact um there was once I was reading a catechism that actually had that to that similar effect that um uh what is the mark of of her authority? Had she not power to um like why does the church have power to institute other hols? And she says had she not had that power she would not have had the authority the authority transferred the solemnity of from the Sabbath to Sunday which so all the other Christian churches acknowledge as having resulted from tradition and in fact um I was actually speaking with a friend of mine asking him about why um he's he's Anglican why do you go to church on on on Sunday he gave me one two verses but then he realized those verses were not so strong but he pointed me to tradition pointed me to Ignatius of Antioch and and uh the epistle of Barnabas and various other um non-biblical non-biblical yeah just like documents in tradition that that even some of them by the way are not even so pointed it's actually much later that it is much more clear that this thing is established in tradition and not in the scriptures and that is one of the unfortunate issues that will be um I think it's even in the Catholic cateism yes that they it is a mark of their ecclesiastical authority authority about this death decree which has to do with Sunday and um um Sunday sacredness or the Sabbath that goes out. Many Christians today will read this or even seventh day Adventists will read this who keep the Sabbath and will be troubled in their hearts and wonder how will we be delivered from this? Will we be killed when the death decree actually goes out? Will many of us be muted when the death decree goes out or will God u deliver his people the way he delivered them in the book of Esther? That's an interesting question u and and and and and has a has a lot of um has a lot of answers I would say and repercussions depending on how you how you approach the answer. The question uh um the long and short of it is that both yes and no. There will be some people who perhaps will be called to the dock. There'll be some people who perhaps will suffer for the sake of uh for the sake of righteousness. But towards the end um during the time where the probation has closed, we are told God will protect his people. If God only allows a Christian to die, a Christian to suffer if as a result of his suffering, somebody else is going to be converted. You see, Christ lays down his life. Christ dies. He sheds his blood because his blood is seed for our salvation. Even in the dark ages when the Christian church was being persecuted and they were being martyed, the blood of the matter was seed for faith. And so God never wastes our suffering. God never allows us to suffer simply for the sake of it. And in all the situations, in all the things that we pass through because of being faithful to God, more often than not, there's somebody somewhere who's going to benefit from our faithfulness. There's somebody somewhere who's going to benefit from our story. But after the close of probation where all mankind has made their decision, then though uh the devil and his forces may seek to persecute God's people, we are told that our bread and our water will be sure and God will surely and truly protect with a marvelous and powerful hand. God will deliver his people. We are told that at midnight, at midnight when they are just about to destroy, when they are just about to kill um um his people. Very wonderful chapter of God's deliverance, one of the last chapters in great controversy that at midnight the deliverance comes and we see Christ appearing in the skies and God's people are finally delivered. Um, in the same manner that the children of Israel were delivered during the time of Esther and Modi, so will God's children be delivered from the hand of Hmon. In this case, being the devil that pursues them. Of course, in the in the in the in the in the figures of states and powers and and and kingly powers of this world that try to kill the people of God, the faithful worshippers of God, eventually God will deliver them. But I want to remind you that these children of Israel were not faithful from the beginning. They turned back to God. They went back to God and fasted and prayed. You know, in the book of Hosea 14:4, the Bible says that I will heal their backsliding. Indeed, we see him healing the backsliding of Esther and Modi and the Jews who had remained there, who had backsliden. and I will love them freely for mine anger is turned away from him. God will be as due to Israel. He will come as a refreshing of the rain when they when the children of Israel do need them. And for us seven day Adventists living in these last days when that death decree goes out, God will heal us and God indeed will deliver us. I want to just give our panelists a few minutes to give us their key takeaways even as as we close our discussion this morning. I will start uh with you. Oh, thank you so much. Uh so I I think we really need to consider uh the stories of Esther and Ruth first of all as instructive. Um 1 Corinthians chapter 12 I think verse 12 it says that all these things were written for our enamples. Yeah. for example the ends of the world has come like there is types for us so especially in this particular story of Ruth and of Esther number one that we have a kinsman who will redeem us and give us the inheritance that we had lost and we had lost despite the unfaithfulness of God's people that God himself as a will will will will freely give us this inheritance number one and number two in the case of Esther sorry in the case of Ruth the inheritance will will be returned in the case of um uh uh uh uh Esther uh God's people will be preserved in the last days that God will protect his people. He will stand on behalf of his people and we can have faith in the promises of God. Amen. Amen. I think I I I gain um from the story of Esther that God is faithful even when we are unfaithful. It also um from the speech that Modi gives, he speaks sometimes of um of how even in our in our blindness, you know, you see the way he speaks with a lot of Jewish pride, you know, and and he doesn't bow yet, he he doesn't bow to to Hmon, yet he similarly also doesn't bow completely to God by being in transgression. Sometimes we can have a form of religion and and we're really we're really strong about it, but we we we we fight for the Sabbath and we do all these things, but then are we right with the Lord of the Sabbath? Are we doing the things that God wants to do for us? But I think even in the midst of of of of this confusion that we have and and and and and and that sometimes we find ourselves in as Christians, you know, in terms of our identity and how we behave through it all, the devil wants to destroy us, but God still defends us. That's that's a wonderful story of love. God who is faithful to us even when we are not 100% faithful to him. And so it's a wonderful story. The story of Ruth also to me speaks to me and tells me that God considers even the widows. You know, God considers uh the considers and and and and God can pair up and sometimes even your ethnicity doesn't matter. So you see Ruth was a Moabitetish woman. Faithfulness to God is she was faithful. She said she became a Jew when she said your God shall be my God. That's the thing that's the thing that that is most important. Your background doesn't matter where you've been. Doesn't matter. But as long as we we we we trust in God and we we subscribe to him fully wholeheartedly abandoning all others, abandoning our homes and being faithful to this to this foreign land and to this God, God always comes through. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. And you know the story of Ruth reminds us that despite her affliction and bitterness and cries, her story at the latter end became even more beautiful than what she had anticipated. She ended up being one of the great great grandmothers of Christ himself. The lineage of Christ comes through this woman who said, "My name is no longer pleasant, but it is bitterness." Yet God through that bitterness formed something extremely beautiful. And the story of Esther again reminding us that God still reveals his grace to a backsliding people. God wants to deliver his people in these last days. You know the book of Romans 15:4 says that whatever was written a four time was written for our learning that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures we might have hope. These have have been written so that we might have hope that we will be delivered. It has been written so that we can be patient with God because God ultimately will deliver us. I pray that Ruth and Esther gives you comfort and gives you hope in Christ. Brother Raphael, kindly pray with us as we close. Pray. Our kind and loving father and master in heaven. We humbly come before you this blessed day. We're thankful, oh Lord, for your goodness and for your mercies. And we ask dear Lord indeed as you are faithful in the lives of Ruth and in the lives of Esther I pray may you enable us to be esters of today wherever we are may we rise up to the occasion may be faithful in such a time as this and dear Lord in all the things that we are going through like Ruth I pray may you be our God and may you guide us and lead us. This is our most humble prayer believing and trusting in you. Amen. Amen. Amen. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[8.2s] Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you
[10.9s] so much for joining us today at New Life
[13.2s] 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth Gong
[15.6s] Avenue for our weekly Sabbath school
[18.6s] lesson study. I'm excited about this
[22.1s] lesson. Especially today, we've been
[24.2s] studying illusions, symbols that God
[27.8s] uses to help us understand Bible
[31.4s] prophecy and especially as it is
[33.7s] relevant for us in these last days. This
[36.7s] week we will be studying Ruth and Esther
[39.6s] and we welcome you to study with us.
[41.9s] Through this week, we have been going
[43.8s] through the women's week of prayer and
[46.0s] our theme has been cravings of the soul.
[49.4s] It is my desire that even as we go
[51.5s] through these studies and as we prepare
[53.3s] for this particular Sabbath that we will
[55.6s] have a deeper craving for the word of
[57.9s] God and for Christ himself. You know
[60.3s] David writes and says in the book of
[62.4s] Psalms that as the deer pants for the
[65.4s] water so does my soul p for you. It is
[68.3s] my prayer that God will create such a
[70.7s] hunger and a thirst in our hearts for
[73.3s] his word as we study it today. So that
[75.8s] with David together we can exclaim that
[78.4s] indeed our hearts and our souls are
[81.2s] panting for our God to study with us
[84.6s] today. I am joined by two panelists. I
[87.0s] would like them to introduce themselves
[89.0s] before we pray. Kindly let's start from
[91.1s] your side. My name is Enongo Rafael.
[93.4s] It's a pleasure to be with all of you.
[95.0s] Thank you for joining us. Uh thank you.
[98.1s] My name is Jafet Rono. Pleasure. Thank
[101.1s] you. And my name is Jess Rono. Thank you
[104.7s] for joining us today. Um I'll ask my
[107.4s] husband to pray with us as we begin the
[109.8s] study today. Can be prayed. Thank you.
[111.6s] Let's pray. Everlasting Redeemer, we are
[114.1s] so grateful that you have been um uh uh
[117.7s] blessing us thus far over the course of
[121.0s] um the lesson studies. You have really
[123.4s] uh filled us with your spirit and taught
[124.7s] us many lessons. Uh we would like to
[127.2s] discuss Ruth and Esther. We ask that
[129.5s] your holy spirit give us more insight
[131.1s] and understanding that Jesus Christ may
[133.2s] be glorified by every single verse and
[135.6s] every single lesson that we uh pick here
[138.1s] in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. You
[141.2s] know throughout this week we've been
[142.6s] looking at different characters,
[144.4s] different women in the Bible and we have
[147.4s] explored several of them. And today it's
[150.2s] very interesting that we are also
[151.8s] highlighting two other women in the
[154.4s] Bible, Ruth and Esther. Very powerful
[157.4s] stories that reveal to us the grace of
[159.8s] God despite a backsliding people,
[163.1s] despite a sinful nation, despite a
[165.5s] sinful people. We see the grace of God
[168.3s] especially revealed in the lives of
[170.9s] Esther and Ruth. And today as we begin I
[174.5s] want us to read our key text starting
[176.9s] from um um um coming to us from the book
[179.8s] of Esther 5:2. Uh brother Raphael kindly
[183.1s] read that for us. Reading from the King
[184.9s] James version it says and it was so when
[188.6s] the king saw Esther the queen standing
[190.8s] in the court that she obtained favor in
[193.3s] his sight. And the king held out to
[196.2s] Esther the golden scepter that was in
[198.0s] his hand. So Esther drew near and
[199.8s] touched the top of the scepter. I don't
[202.2s] know if there's I I think almost all the
[205.0s] women that I know have a particular uh
[208.6s] relationship with Esther and Ruth in the
[210.7s] Bible. When they go to Esther, they'll
[212.4s] probably go on and talk about Esther,
[214.6s] this beautiful woman who was loved by
[216.7s] the king. And some of them even use the
[219.0s] book of Esther to defend um wear I mean
[221.7s] putting on of makeup and wearing of
[223.7s] jewelry. When people go to the book of
[226.4s] Ruth, they see an a beautiful
[229.4s] illustration of love and people have
[231.8s] used um the book of the story of Ruth
[234.6s] and Boas to typify their wedding themes
[237.4s] and people have been excited with the
[239.8s] idea of saying this is my Ruth or this
[242.1s] is my this is my Boaz and it's very
[245.4s] exciting that even as we come to this um
[248.3s] Bible study today, we need to remember
[251.2s] that God has put within these two
[254.1s] stories, very important lessons that
[257.2s] relate to us who are living in these
[259.6s] last days. And I want us to go to each
[261.8s] of these stories. We'll start with the
[263.2s] story of Ruth. Lay out the context and
[265.5s] look at the symbols that exist here, the
[268.0s] illusions that are in this book that
[270.2s] typify what will happen to the children
[272.6s] of God in the last days. Um maybe I will
[276.0s] start um with you. Just give us the
[278.2s] context. what is happening in the book
[280.1s] of Ruth as the as the story opens up in
[282.7s] chapter one actually the context of the
[285.3s] book of Ruth is actually the book of
[286.9s] judges that um Ruth um and the and the
[291.0s] rest are actually living during the time
[292.7s] of the judges and um almost I can say
[296.8s] like the the summary text of the book of
[299.0s] judges is actually the very last verse
[301.2s] um it's it's in the second chapter of
[302.9s] the book book of judges you find this
[304.4s] theme but this last verse just um it
[306.8s] summarizes it so perfectly Judges 21 25
[310.8s] it says in those days there was no king
[313.6s] in Israel and every man did that which
[317.0s] was right in his own eyes and
[320.7s] unfortunately within this setting within
[323.2s] the setting of a backsliden nation we
[325.8s] actually find the story of Ruth so you
[328.4s] find that um within that setting you
[330.7s] find that Ruth um and Naomi um actually
[334.1s] the it's actually that Naomi and her
[336.3s] husband Elimc are living in Bethlehem.
[339.8s] Now, what does Bethlehem mean? House of
[341.9s] bread. House of bread. Now, within this
[343.9s] house of bread, there is an unfortunate
[345.8s] famine that takes place. Ironically,
[347.8s] ironically, yeah. Ruth chapter 1 from
[350.2s] verse 1 to5, you find that they have a
[352.6s] famine. They're afflicted. Now, we could
[354.8s] not say that the famine came to them
[357.4s] because of their transgression. Because
[359.0s] even Christ said that there were some
[360.9s] people who were living um and a tower
[363.1s] fell on them and it could not have been
[365.0s] just because that they were wicked. Cuz
[367.8s] um um sometimes bad things happen to
[370.0s] good people. But the fact is that Israel
[372.6s] was a backsliding and a backsliding
[374.8s] people and and uh Naomi and Elimc they
[379.5s] they left their land where they supposed
[381.8s] to um inhabit and they went into the
[384.5s] land of Moab. Now within the land of
[386.3s] Moab, their sons in verse two, Malon and
[389.3s] Chileon, they found two um wives. Maybe
[393.0s] before we go into um their their sons,
[397.0s] what was God's instruction when there is
[399.6s] famine in the land? What was God's
[401.4s] instruction to the children of Israel?
[403.4s] When you see famine in the land, when
[405.0s] there's calamities such as famine, what
[406.9s] was the instruction to the children of
[408.3s] Israel? What were they meant to do? Yes,
[410.1s] actually the instruction is found in the
[411.4s] book of Deuteronomy chapter 28. We are
[413.5s] told um the first few verses of
[415.8s] Deuteronomy 28 Moses speaking he says
[418.2s] that um if you are faithful then 100%
[421.5s] God will be very faithful and especially
[424.4s] to Israel God was trying to manifest
[427.0s] them that he was their signal king you
[429.6s] know and he was their leader um and so
[431.8s] he would bless them abundantly he said
[433.8s] you know like sometimes armies would
[436.0s] come um in in um in one united force and
[439.4s] then they would disperse seven ways that
[441.5s] every single place they go to they would
[443.4s] even be inhabiting ter to belong to
[445.3s] other people you know that they would
[447.3s] just eat um from trees that they did not
[449.5s] even plant but then on the other hand if
[452.2s] they are unfaithful and then it's I
[454.0s] think it's from verse 14 onwards um all
[456.3s] the way to verse 50 something 55 56 you
[459.1s] find a a a a a litany of curses why
[462.7s] because of unfaithfulness and then they
[464.6s] were told in chapter 21 29 of
[466.9s] Deuteronomy that once they find
[468.8s] themselves in that state once they found
[471.0s] themselves in in E in this example as a
[474.2s] nation they must go back to God. They
[476.2s] must humble themselves. In fact what
[479.0s] Moses says they must circumcise the
[481.0s] foreskin of their hearts. Deuteronomy 29
[483.4s] that they must circumcise the foreskin
[485.0s] of their hearts. They must in contrition
[487.0s] accept that they had sinned and then go
[489.2s] back. Now in this particular case uh the
[491.7s] whole of the book of judges is about uh
[494.0s] almost one one endless uh cycle of
[498.2s] idolatry and transgression. But they
[500.2s] never do that. going back to God. They
[502.6s] don't go back to God. They don't we
[504.6s] don't see El Naomi going back to God and
[507.5s] saying, "God, we are repenting. If my
[509.4s] people who are called by my name, come
[511.8s] back to me and they repent of their
[513.9s] sins, then I will heal their land."
[515.8s] That's not what they chose to do. They
[517.2s] chose to do that which was right in
[519.3s] their own eyes. They left and went to
[521.8s] another land other than turning back to
[524.4s] God and actually praying. So, yeah. And
[527.2s] as a result, just one quick thing, as a
[528.7s] result, the sons end up marrying
[531.2s] something that God had forbidden. He had
[533.1s] forbidden because he knew um and and in
[536.1s] truth, we we know what happens in the
[538.4s] end of Ruth. And that's wonderful. But
[540.2s] then that's an exception. Generally,
[542.5s] what would happen is if you enter into
[544.8s] the world, almost always the world will
[547.4s] will ensnare and and may unfortunately
[550.1s] ultimately take you. It just happens
[552.9s] went on even further to disobey God's
[555.0s] command and married other foreign women.
[557.5s] Yes. Yes. Which in the book of Utronomy
[559.0s] is consistently forbidden because of the
[561.4s] false religion. Not because God doesn't
[563.2s] care about race or tribe. He doesn't
[564.6s] care about that. It's about the false
[566.2s] religion and the false gods that they
[568.2s] would bring in. People who are who are
[571.9s] uh doing that which is right in their
[573.8s] own eyes. They have left the place where
[576.0s] they are supposed to be bread. But
[577.4s] because of of of farming in that land,
[580.4s] they move instead of seeking God, they
[582.3s] move to go to a different land. What
[584.9s] happens to Naomi and her family? We've
[587.4s] been told one day marry an uh foreign
[589.8s] wives. But what happens? Indeed. It
[591.8s] reminds me of a of a saying which is
[594.2s] quite prominent amongst Africans that
[596.2s] Africa is ours and uh and African
[598.2s] problems, you know, how to sort them.
[599.4s] you know it see it seems as if um as if
[603.1s] um this particular family decided to
[605.8s] take matters into their own hand. I
[607.5s] remember at the dedication of the temple
[609.6s] um one of the things that one of the
[612.3s] prayers there that comes from that
[614.2s] chapter is if my people which are called
[617.5s] by my name will humble themselves
[619.2s] themselves and then I will do what and
[621.0s] pray I will hear and I will open and I
[623.1s] will and there will be so many blessings
[624.4s] and so I think the lesson for us here is
[627.0s] that each calamity each difficulty is an
[630.0s] opportunity for us to go back to God to
[631.8s] retrace our steps and to and to commit
[634.8s] ourselves to him and so eventually the
[636.7s] Bible records as this man uh this man
[640.4s] and his family move and and go we're
[644.0s] told in verse three Elime eventually
[647.0s] died and she's left with her two sons so
[650.2s] she's widowed and then verse four says
[653.3s] they end up marrying women of Moab one
[656.2s] was Orfa and the other one was Ruth and
[658.8s] they dwell there about 10 years clearly
[662.2s] way after it's indicated way after the
[664.2s] fine even has has has ended It's not
[667.4s] that God is against refugees because
[670.1s] Christ himself was a refugee at after
[672.2s] after his birth when Herod was and he
[674.3s] moved to Egypt but it was a time they
[675.9s] were told to go back. The children of
[677.5s] Israel under uh by Joseph went to Egypt
[680.6s] and then they were they were brought
[682.1s] back after after a particular time but
[683.8s] these people were so comfortable. It is
[685.8s] only when calamity hits. Bible records
[689.2s] in verse 5, Malon and Chillon died also
[693.7s] both of them and the woman was left with
[696.1s] her two sons and her husband.
[699.3s] Then there arose with her
[701.4s] daughters-in-law
[702.9s] that she might return to the country of
[704.9s] Moab, for she had heard in the country
[706.9s] of Moab how the Lord had visited his
[709.0s] people in giving them. So it was
[711.4s] calamity after calamity. the father,
[714.4s] then the two sons. It must have been
[716.5s] very painful. And you're in a foreign
[718.1s] land. That's the imagine. I remember I
[720.6s] don't know. I don't know whether it's
[721.8s] it's still the same. More often than
[723.7s] not, relationships between
[725.0s] mother-in-laws and daughter-in-laws are
[727.5s] can be quite um quite difficult. So, she
[730.9s] moves from being a
[733.8s] one with a husband to being a widow with
[735.9s] with sons. Then the sons marry. Then
[739.2s] eventually her sons die and she's left
[741.0s] with her daughters-in-law. But uh and
[744.5s] then eventually it's just things are
[747.1s] just difficult and she decides now it's
[749.4s] time to go back. It's time to go back.
[752.0s] Um I think very interesting with what
[754.5s] happens with this daughters-in-law.
[755.8s] Maybe just speak to us about this and
[757.5s] tell us what was um Ruth's desire.
[760.8s] Actually maybe before we we go there,
[763.2s] let me just hold that thought. Um let's
[766.4s] just come back to her reaction. This has
[769.2s] happened to her. How does she react? How
[771.4s] does she perceive all these calamities?
[774.8s] So she she hears that the Lord has
[779.4s] visited his people in giving them bread.
[782.1s] And so she realizes she's struggling in
[783.8s] Moab. Now technically everything that
[786.7s] mattered to her uh around her is no
[789.8s] longer there and now she remembers home.
[791.7s] She remembers a familiar street and she
[793.3s] realizes why should she suffer here?
[795.1s] It's almost like she has a prodigal son
[797.0s] moment after spending everything in
[799.4s] riotous living. In this particular case,
[801.0s] after all that she held dear and close
[803.4s] to her have have left. Now she decides
[806.6s] to go back home. And then uh in verse 7
[809.4s] it says, "Wherefore she went forth out
[810.9s] of the place where she was and her two
[812.6s] daughters-in-law with her and they went
[814.4s] on their way to return to the land of
[817.4s] the land of Judah." And then she turns
[819.7s] to them in verse 8 and she tells them,
[821.0s] "Return each of you to your mother's
[823.4s] house. The Lord deal kindly with you as
[825.7s] you have dealt with with as as ye have
[828.6s] dealt with the dead and with me. He says
[831.2s] she is basically saying the way you've
[833.0s] treated me and the way you treated my
[834.3s] sons may may the Lord uh equally uh be
[838.1s] kind to you. And then continues and asks
[841.7s] prays to them prays for them to find
[843.4s] rest. You know each one in in the house
[846.1s] of her husband she kisses them and they
[848.6s] lifted up their voice and they wept.
[850.6s] Interesting um in-law relationship. And
[853.4s] then uh they said to her, "Surely we
[855.9s] will return with thee unto thy people."
[858.1s] And Naomi said, "Turn again, my
[860.1s] daughters." She insists again and says
[862.6s] she's yet she doesn't have any more sons
[864.5s] in her womb uh that they may be your
[866.8s] husbands. And then she she really tries
[868.6s] to to to tell them to go away. Um but it
[872.8s] says uh she tells them even if I was to
[874.7s] get a son, she I'm I'm truncating it's
[877.2s] not possible for them for you to wait
[878.9s] for them until they grow. And um she
[880.9s] ends and says, "For it gaveth me much
[883.4s] for your sakes, that the hand of the
[886.0s] Lord is gone out against me." In verse
[889.5s] 13, she blames God for her misfortune.
[892.4s] She says, "Things have just been
[894.0s] terrible. We we had to move because of
[896.4s] femine. We moved. My husband died. My
[899.1s] children have died. I've struggled here.
[901.0s] I'm going back. I don't have anything. I
[903.4s] am hopeless as as literally you guys go
[906.6s] back. Clearly, I am cast. there's
[909.0s] something wrong with me. God is not
[910.4s] happy. The hand of God has gone against
[912.6s] me. And I think as we pause there, you
[914.6s] know, people people will read the story
[916.7s] of of of uh Naomi and say, "God must be
[922.2s] a very bad God." People actually would
[925.6s] read this and say, "How can God allow
[927.8s] all this to happen to one woman?" But of
[930.3s] course, you were given the context, you
[931.9s] know, uh people who did not people were
[934.7s] doing that which was right in their own
[936.4s] eyes. Despite all this, God still
[938.4s] remembers and visits his children and
[940.8s] brings what brings bread in this land.
[943.5s] Let's just unpack this about blaming God
[946.7s] for the consequences of our own actions
[949.1s] and who is actually the true person who
[951.9s] afflicts God's children. Is it God who
[953.9s] afflicts them? Who is the true person
[956.2s] behind our afflictions? Indeed, I think
[958.7s] uh that's a very uh poignant point that
[961.2s] you that you that you that you you're
[963.2s] drawing out and um it's a place of God
[966.2s] in our in our suffering. But the reality
[968.9s] is more often than not a great chunk of
[972.1s] our suffering is as a result of our own
[975.0s] doing is a result of the choices that
[977.3s] we've made and more often than not
[979.0s] choices out of disobedience. choices uh
[982.1s] that we make where we distrust God and
[985.0s] we doubt his hand and his power to
[987.1s] provide for us. When we decide to take
[989.4s] matters into our own hands, more often
[991.0s] than not, sometimes we we dig our own
[993.4s] graves. When the devil beguiles us and
[995.8s] and and indeed it is the devil who in
[998.4s] John 10:10 strives to steal, to kill,
[1001.4s] and to destroy. But God, he says he has
[1004.6s] come that we might have life and have it
[1006.8s] in abundance. The plan of God in our
[1009.0s] lives is for us to live abundant
[1010.6s] abundant lives, for us to live good
[1012.6s] lives. But even the story of um of of of
[1016.8s] um of uh the wheat and the tears
[1019.4s] eventually the question is asked what's
[1022.0s] happening here? Why why is why is why
[1023.8s] have things spoiled? Then the answer is
[1025.8s] what an enemy has done this. An enemy
[1028.9s] has done this. And so uh sometimes we we
[1032.0s] are very quick to blame God because I
[1034.6s] think we have understood that God is
[1036.7s] powerful. You know, but we have not
[1038.3s] understood that there's another power on
[1039.8s] the opposite end of the of the great
[1041.7s] controversy who equally if we play into
[1044.9s] his hands can can ruin our lives. Yes.
[1047.8s] And bring suffering and pain. And so
[1050.7s] Ruth during this uh very trying period
[1054.7s] um her name actually which means
[1057.1s] pleasant um cries out in bitterness and
[1060.4s] she says um from now on my name will be
[1063.3s] called Mara. Me bitterness. bitterness.
[1067.4s] Bitterness toward God because we we want
[1070.7s] to blame God for the misfortunes that
[1073.0s] come upon us. Yet actually it is God who
[1075.1s] wants to redeem us. It is God who wants
[1077.4s] to save us. It is God who wants to
[1079.8s] restore us. Just talk to us about Ruth's
[1082.2s] desire to follow God despite despite uh
[1086.5s] Naomi's tantrum so to speak or despite
[1090.1s] uh Naomi's affliction, despite Naomi
[1092.3s] blaming God, what is Ruth's reaction?
[1095.8s] Yes. So Ruth actually says that um she
[1098.6s] will refuse to leave. Um Ruth chapter 1
[1101.6s] verse um um verse uh verse 15. Verse 15.
[1106.5s] Uh uh actually this is when when when uh
[1110.0s] uh Ruth actually makes a proclamation
[1112.1s] says that your people shall be my
[1114.2s] people. Verse 16. And your God shall be
[1117.2s] my God. refusing to leave uh Naomi and
[1121.8s] in and instead actually understanding
[1123.5s] the incredible value um of the life that
[1126.1s] Naomi had been living, unwilling to go
[1128.4s] back to um what Ruth um in her past and
[1131.8s] and and like I think we should
[1134.1s] appreciate that Ruth is making this
[1136.0s] decision knowing like not knowing that
[1138.5s] there are good things in the future like
[1140.8s] us in hindsight we can see in hindsight
[1143.0s] we can read like some chapters in the
[1144.6s] future and we can see wonderful things
[1146.7s] that exist. Yeah. Yeah, as far as she's
[1148.8s] concerned, there is Naomi and then there
[1150.6s] is the God that Naomi worship worship.
[1152.6s] Amen. And and and that was sufficient
[1154.8s] for her that she was willing to make a
[1156.8s] drastic change in her life. Um all
[1158.9s] because of what she had witnessed in the
[1160.4s] life of number one in the life of Naomi,
[1163.6s] but number two in the God that she had
[1165.5s] seen. It's interesting maybe if I was to
[1167.6s] interject, imagine I remember uh when we
[1171.8s] were when I was a bit younger, I'm a bit
[1174.1s] wiser now, I'd like to believe. um we
[1177.0s] would always seek for advice from those
[1179.5s] who are successful you know you you
[1182.5s] almost want to emulate them. I remember
[1184.7s] the time people this book think big and
[1187.9s] then almost everybody wanted to be a
[1189.4s] neurosurgeon you know everybody desired
[1191.9s] all children wanted to be a
[1193.1s] neurosurgeon. Now similarly consider
[1196.3s] Naomi and Ruth Naomi is somebody who by
[1200.6s] for all intents and purposes it seems
[1202.3s] like her life is in shambles. She she
[1204.5s] doesn't have her things together. It
[1206.1s] seems as if even the god that she's
[1208.0s] worshiping is not a faithful god. It's a
[1210.1s] wrong god. But then imagine now Ruth
[1212.1s] comes in fact in verse 15 it says behold
[1215.4s] she says behold your sister this is
[1217.4s] orpha
[1219.1s] is gone back unto her people and unto
[1222.0s] her gods. Return thou after thy
[1224.4s] sisterin-law. It's even saying like that
[1227.0s] separation in and of itself is not only
[1229.2s] uh it's not only physical but it's also
[1231.1s] spiritual that they moving away from
[1232.9s] this god who has not been faithful. Even
[1235.0s] Naomi herself says it seems as if the
[1237.3s] lord is what the lord is gone out
[1239.5s] against me. And in an age and in a time
[1241.7s] in which we want we like to copy uh the
[1245.1s] secret to success. If we see your god is
[1248.2s] not doing it for you surely then for a
[1250.6s] fact let's go where it seems people are
[1252.2s] making it. Let's go to that church where
[1253.8s] there are miracles. Let's go to that
[1255.1s] church where people plant uh and and and
[1257.8s] they harvest uh greatly, you know. And
[1260.1s] so, but Ruth makes a very a very I think
[1263.8s] it's a very difficult decision in my
[1265.8s] mind to follow somebody who is quote
[1267.8s] unquote considered a failure. Somebody
[1269.6s] who themselves they have given up. They
[1271.8s] have said the Lord has left me. But then
[1274.1s] Ruth says your God shall be my God. This
[1276.9s] God who has forsaken you. This God who
[1278.4s] has brought so much calamity in in in
[1281.5s] her eyes tells us of the faith of Ruth
[1284.2s] and the fidelity of Ruth to the
[1285.9s] mother-in-law. Amen. Amen. And I think I
[1288.6s] I think even if Naomi is complaining and
[1291.8s] very bitter at this time, there must
[1293.8s] have been enough of God in her that Ruth
[1297.1s] saw and said still even despite all
[1299.8s] this, this is the God that I want to
[1301.5s] follow. I just want to pause and ask um
[1304.0s] you my brother or sister who is watching
[1306.4s] us. Do people despite the circumstances
[1309.2s] in your life, do people see enough of
[1311.9s] God in your life that they say, "I want
[1314.3s] to follow the God that you serve. I want
[1316.2s] to follow the God whom you worship
[1318.7s] despite all that is going within your
[1321.2s] around your life. I want to follow that
[1323.9s] God." And now Ruth turns back with the
[1328.2s] with with Naomi and they go back to the
[1330.7s] land of Judah. um talk to us about um
[1334.5s] the um Boaz as a kinsman and his
[1337.8s] relationship especially today um with
[1340.6s] Christ as our redeemer.
[1343.0s] Indeed. Um Jafet, would you like to take
[1345.4s] it? Oh, sure. Uh so we actually find uh
[1349.2s] in the book of Ruth chap 2:5-20
[1352.6s] we find um as um a very interesting
[1356.0s] story that actually indicates the kind
[1357.7s] of kindness that Buas had that um it was
[1361.0s] it was first a command in the scriptures
[1363.8s] um I think it is uh in the in in in the
[1366.5s] first five books of the of Moses you
[1368.6s] find God commanding that there are some
[1371.2s] gleanings that should be left for those
[1373.5s] ones who are poor. Poor will always be
[1375.8s] among you. Therefore, when you harvest,
[1377.7s] don't harvest everything. Leave a few
[1379.8s] things so that the poor will come and
[1381.8s] glean. Yes. And Leviticus 25:25, if one
[1385.0s] of your brethren becomes poor and has
[1387.0s] sold some of his possessions, and if his
[1389.2s] redeeming relative comes to redeem it,
[1391.0s] then he may redeem what his brother
[1393.1s] sold. Yes. Okay. Yeah. But but but now
[1395.4s] that's like after now like once it is
[1397.1s] clear that Boaz is is is a kinsman but
[1400.1s] even before then Boaz was still kind
[1401.9s] enough to not just allow um um Ruth to
[1405.6s] receive gleings but even more than
[1407.3s] enough. Yeah. And then um once Naomi
[1410.6s] actually figures out that Boaz actually
[1413.0s] is a kinsman then clearly it actually
[1415.5s] opens the door first of all for Naomi to
[1417.8s] get back what was dispossessed of her,
[1419.6s] what was was lost. and and and now I
[1423.2s] think we can infer that Naomi could see
[1425.0s] that there was a path forward for Ruth.
[1427.5s] It's interesting what you say. I think
[1429.3s] it tells us about the the government of
[1431.7s] God. Do do you find like I remember
[1433.9s] reading a story about uh people being
[1437.1s] killed or being hurt for picking
[1439.0s] pineapples along Thick Road uh on the
[1441.4s] Del Monte farm. But literally in God's
[1444.0s] economy, you were told that it is it is
[1447.3s] allowed for a stranger to enter into
[1449.3s] your farm as long as they were hungry
[1451.3s] and to eat. The the thing that wasn't
[1453.1s] allowed is for them to take too much.
[1455.4s] Yeah. But enough to sustain them was was
[1457.8s] adequate. It just tells it speaks to me
[1459.8s] about the mind of God if he was to
[1461.7s] structure and organize society. Imagine
[1464.9s] how how um poverty, recklessness,
[1469.5s] rather wretchedness and difficulty uh
[1472.6s] how how the masses will be suited, how
[1475.0s] everybody will be taken care of. It's
[1476.6s] interesting. Very very nice thought. At
[1478.9s] the very least, there would always be
[1480.1s] like a flow like a flow like below which
[1482.4s] no one could have could could go beneath
[1484.4s] and you would have a very strong system
[1486.6s] of social welfare at a time when they
[1489.9s] there's no there's no advanced economic
[1491.4s] theory like this. It's actually it shows
[1493.4s] you how far advanced the system God's
[1495.3s] thinking is. Even Christ himself
[1497.1s] benefited at some point as he was
[1498.8s] walking his disciples. Disciples I mean
[1501.3s] they picked some wheat along the way.
[1503.1s] But continue. Okay. Christ did not pick
[1504.9s] the disciples did. The disciples did.
[1506.5s] Okay.
[1508.6s] All right. Tell us about the uh tell us
[1510.6s] about Boaz being the king's man. So the
[1513.1s] Bible records in uh Ruth 2 and verse one
[1516.8s] and Naomi had a kingsman of her husbands
[1519.4s] a mighty man of wealth. M that's
[1522.2s] something if the Bible says you're
[1523.8s] mighty not in strength it says a mighty
[1527.0s] man of wealth of the family of Elime and
[1531.9s] his name was Boaz. And so uh it tells us
[1536.7s] eventually the story that Jaffet was
[1538.3s] talking about Ruth the Moabites now says
[1542.1s] let me go to the field and glean ears of
[1544.6s] corn after him in whose sight I shall
[1547.1s] find grace. And she said unto her go my
[1550.4s] daughter. So she's technically they've
[1552.6s] now been reduced quote unquote I would
[1554.3s] say like beggars. Yeah. They're
[1555.9s] technically beggars, you know, and and
[1557.4s] and because if you're searching for the
[1559.2s] gleanings um in in a stranger's farm,
[1562.1s] then 100% you are. And the gleanings are
[1564.6s] after they've been harvested. These are
[1566.0s] things you you maybe they they forgot
[1568.0s] something here. They forgot something
[1569.0s] that depending
[1570.9s] depending on how thorough they were and
[1572.3s] how converted they were. Yes. Yes. So
[1575.0s] you see and so it's it's it's it's
[1578.3s] really difficult. And then she says
[1580.7s] she's going and then as she goes the
[1583.0s] Bible records she went and came and
[1584.4s] gleaned in the field after the reapers
[1586.1s] and her hap was to light on a part of
[1589.8s] the field belonging unto Boaz who was
[1592.1s] the kindred. And so um
[1596.7s] as the result of it all was um Boaz asks
[1600.0s] asks the question in verse 5, whose dam
[1603.0s] damsel is this? And then they say this
[1605.4s] is a Moabitetish damsel that came back
[1608.4s] with Naomi out of the country of Moab.
[1611.8s] Like she's first identified by her
[1614.1s] ethnicity,
[1615.6s] a Moabitetish damsel. The children of
[1618.6s] Israel had laws against marrying
[1621.2s] foreigners. You know, the story of of
[1623.8s] Boaz is is is quite interesting. Boaz as
[1626.2s] a kinsman redeemer. It's quite powerful.
[1628.7s] He not only redeems
[1631.5s] um uh his uh the household of of of a
[1635.9s] relative but redeems it in a state that
[1638.3s] would have been deemed unworthy a
[1641.4s] moitish woman you know of all the women
[1644.9s] uh and I would like to believe uh Boaz
[1647.2s] was single
[1649.1s] Boaz was a bachelor an eligible bachelor
[1652.4s] wealthy and he goes for a widower a
[1655.5s] widow who's not even of the stock of
[1658.3s] Israel. What type of faith is this? See
[1662.0s] how God weaves the fabric of humanity
[1664.6s] and and brings relationships together.
[1667.1s] And so he continues and says eventually
[1670.5s] she said uh they repeat they repeat uh
[1673.3s] what what has what had happened. Um and
[1676.0s] then verse 8 says then Bo said unto
[1677.9s] Ruth, "Hearest thou not my daughter. Go
[1680.2s] not to glean in another field, neither
[1682.6s] go from hence, but abide here first by
[1686.1s] my maidens." He even like tells her stay
[1689.4s] with the ladies, you know, stay with the
[1691.4s] ladies. Don't the men may be a bit rough
[1693.6s] and things like that. And so eventually
[1695.3s] he does come through and eventually they
[1697.8s] realize that this guy is actually a
[1700.3s] kingsman. A kingsman and he decides he's
[1703.7s] willing to step up and to and to redeem
[1706.4s] as we as we looked at Leviticus 25 verse
[1708.6s] 25. And um but we are told as uh you
[1712.6s] shall show us eventually he was the
[1715.1s] second in line or somebody who qualified
[1716.9s] more. Tell us about who was closer than
[1720.1s] Boas. Yeah. So there was um a kinsman
[1723.5s] who was actually closer than Boas. And
[1725.7s] the interesting part is actually the the
[1728.9s] typology of what that represents. I
[1731.0s] think throughout we've actually seen the
[1732.7s] description of Ruth and Naomi as as a
[1735.8s] kind of typology of our state that we
[1739.4s] have also been dispossessed. Adam and
[1741.4s] Eve in Eden were dispossessed of of of
[1744.0s] what was rightfully their own. the
[1745.7s] dominion. The dominion and ultimately it
[1748.1s] was it um it was received by one who you
[1751.4s] could say was uh a close kinsman of
[1755.0s] human of of of humanity who is the one
[1757.9s] who had um like all that territory which
[1761.2s] was the whole earth and everything that
[1763.3s] was um belonging to Adam and Eve it all
[1766.0s] fell to to the devil unfortunately. This
[1768.6s] sounds very very strange but first of
[1770.4s] all in the book of Job chapter 1 verse 6
[1772.7s] onwards you find uh uh the devil walking
[1775.2s] up and down you actually find um to show
[1778.2s] that he owns the territory. It's like
[1780.6s] when God told Abraham whatever you set
[1782.9s] your foot on that land I shall give it
[1785.0s] to you. So the devil sets his foot
[1786.9s] because it is his land. Yes. But even
[1788.9s] more strongly, first of all, the devil
[1790.4s] himself says in Matthew 4:8
[1793.4s] um verse um 89 that he says himself that
[1797.0s] all these things have been given to to
[1798.7s] me. Christ himself calls the devil what?
[1801.8s] The prince of this world that he
[1804.1s] understands that there's a sense in
[1805.9s] which the devil has ownership of this
[1808.0s] world. Ultimately that is not the case.
[1809.8s] But there's a a temporary and a special
[1812.0s] sense. Even in the book of Jude chapter
[1814.1s] 1 vers9 when when when um uh Moses the
[1819.0s] the body of Moses was about to be
[1820.4s] resurrected there was a contention
[1822.4s] between Jesus Christ and the devil. Jude
[1825.0s] 1:9 Why is that? Because the devil had a
[1828.0s] sense in which he had there was a sense
[1830.0s] of ownership that he had over every
[1832.0s] single person who was a sinner who was e
[1835.7s] um in effect like um in effect after his
[1838.7s] own stock you could say. Um even in Luke
[1841.8s] 22:31 you have this constant um idea in
[1845.2s] the scriptures that the closest kinsman
[1847.5s] quote unquote is actually the devil.
[1850.1s] Yeah. And I wouldn't say because um as
[1852.8s] with all metaphors all metaphors
[1854.3s] eventually break at some point like for
[1856.1s] instance the metaphor of Christ being
[1857.8s] the lamp Christ does not chew card you
[1859.7s] know or have four foots. So h that close
[1862.8s] kinsman in the case of Ruth and Naomi
[1864.9s] was not an evil person. It's but there's
[1867.6s] there's a there's there's um a sense in
[1870.2s] which Boaz being a type of Christ um he
[1873.4s] he he took that inheritance that could
[1876.2s] have gone to the one who was a closer
[1877.8s] kinsman who um um at that time was um
[1882.2s] the individual who um eventually
[1884.6s] relinquished the claims to Boaz. Yeah.
[1887.2s] So I just want to understand that that
[1889.7s] metaphor is is a soft metaphor. It is
[1892.2s] not a strong You understand what I'm
[1893.8s] saying? It's not a hard metaphor. It's a
[1895.7s] it's a it's a soft metaphor. It's a it's
[1898.2s] a it's the it's the it's at the
[1900.4s] discretion of the lesson writer. Yes.
[1903.0s] Yes. Yes. I I I just like to read um the
[1905.9s] book of Ezekiel um chapter 37 from verse
[1909.6s] 21. Um, and the Bible says, "And say
[1913.5s] unto them, thus saith the Lord God,
[1916.2s] behold, I will take the children of
[1918.3s] Israel from among the heathen, whether
[1921.0s] they be gone, and will gather them on
[1924.1s] every side, and will bring them into
[1927.2s] their own land." You know, it's almost a
[1930.0s] clear description of what happened to
[1932.8s] the family of Naomi, those who had gone
[1935.7s] to the land of the heathen. And
[1937.6s] typifying us who are right now living in
[1940.3s] the land of the heathen in the sense
[1941.9s] that this world belongs to to the devil.
[1945.1s] He is the prince of the air as Paul
[1947.4s] writes and says and it continues on to
[1950.0s] say and I will make them one nation in
[1952.2s] the land upon the mountains of Israel
[1954.2s] and one king shall be king to them all
[1956.8s] and they shall be no more two nations
[1958.9s] neither shall they be divided into two
[1961.0s] kingdoms anymore at all. Verse 23 says,
[1963.7s] "Neither shall they defile themselves
[1965.8s] anymore with their idols, nor with their
[1968.2s] detestable things, nor with their
[1970.2s] transgressions, but I will save them out
[1973.3s] of all their dwelling places, wherein
[1976.5s] they have sinned, and I will cleanse
[1979.5s] them, so they shall be my people, and I
[1983.3s] will be their God." In the same way,
[1985.8s] Boaz typifying Christ redeemed Ruth and
[1990.0s] in that sense actually brought relief to
[1993.3s] Naomi. Christ says, "I will also gather
[1996.2s] my people the same way he gathered Naomi
[1998.6s] back to himself. I am going to gather my
[2001.5s] people and I will heal them. I will
[2003.5s] cleanse their sin and I will become
[2005.8s] their God. They will become my people."
[2007.9s] And ultimately to at the end of the
[2010.1s] world, that is what God is going to do
[2012.2s] to his people. At the end he call he
[2014.4s] calls out and says my people come out of
[2017.3s] Babylon. Come out of the land of the
[2019.1s] heathen. Come out of the land of Moab
[2021.7s] where you have gone to dwell and draw
[2024.2s] back to the land of Judah and I will
[2026.6s] redeem you. Our boas is in the land of
[2028.9s] Judah. God promises to redeem us from
[2032.2s] the one who has greater claims on us
[2034.9s] even even the devil. I want us to
[2037.5s] swiftly move to cover the story of Ruth.
[2040.6s] I think I mean to cover the story of of
[2042.8s] of Esther and just talk about again
[2047.1s] God's desire to save his his people and
[2051.0s] to redeem them in these last days. And I
[2054.2s] want us to start by covering the
[2056.1s] context. Why is Esther um living in this
[2060.5s] land at this particular time? Just give
[2063.1s] us very brief briefly give us the
[2065.7s] context um my brother. What is Esther
[2068.1s] doing there? Um in a very short period
[2070.4s] of time. I think uh Esther belongs to a
[2073.0s] people who had uh what uh in psychology
[2076.1s] they they say uh when you are too
[2078.2s] attached to your captor, you know. Um uh
[2081.5s] they call it Stockholm syndrome
[2082.7s] syndrome. Stockholm syndrome. The
[2084.6s] children of Israel, we we find Daniel
[2086.7s] praying for them after 70 years. That's
[2088.8s] how long they were supposed to be in
[2089.9s] captivity in Babylon. Then when the mids
[2092.0s] and the persians came eventually
[2095.0s] Darius at saxus and many other kings
[2097.9s] gave but eventually they gave the Cyrus
[2101.4s] also but dur success eventually the
[2104.2s] success allows the Jews to go back and
[2107.1s] to rebuild because they studied the
[2108.9s] scriptures and they realized that God
[2110.6s] had actually been leading them as a
[2112.1s] nation and this was the desire of God
[2114.2s] for for them and so but we're told there
[2117.1s] are some Jews who had gotten comfortable
[2118.9s] in captivity and this uh is a stalk
[2121.8s] which um who are now captured in this
[2125.4s] story. Yes. So Esther is is not living
[2128.9s] in in in in in in this land uh because
[2132.7s] in the land of Assyria because she is
[2135.3s] happy because she is exiled. It's she's
[2138.0s] actually a backslider. She's a
[2139.8s] backsliding Jew. She was supposed to be
[2141.7s] in Jerusalem but she happens she has
[2144.4s] supposed to have gone back to rebuild
[2146.1s] but she happens to be living in this
[2148.3s] land. The Jews are living in this and in
[2150.3s] the comforts. They in the comforts of of
[2153.0s] the land of the land of captivity. So
[2155.8s] was Esther was Esther faithful then? Was
[2158.4s] Esther are faithful? So that's number
[2160.2s] one. She was not faithful because that
[2161.9s] command uh to go and rebuild back home
[2165.3s] and rebuild. Number one, Mah and Esther
[2167.4s] failed to to abide by it. But then
[2169.8s] number two also um in the book of Esther
[2172.5s] chapter 1 um verse 10 and 11 you find
[2177.1s] that you could say Esther's predecessor
[2178.9s] whose name was Queen Vashi when there
[2181.0s] was a great ball everyone was drunk and
[2183.5s] then Queen Vashi was supposed to go and
[2185.4s] present herself and I think the Bible
[2187.4s] uses very nice language to describe
[2189.2s] something which was most likely a very
[2191.0s] not nice and very lwd thing when it says
[2193.8s] uh the command of the king Esther 1 11
[2197.2s] bring Vashi the queen before the king
[2199.7s] with the crown royal to show the people
[2202.1s] and the princess her beauty for she was
[2204.4s] fair to look upon. In fact um onwards we
[2207.1s] find that Vashi was actually a very
[2208.6s] noble woman who refused that um command
[2212.6s] and and as a result was was basically
[2214.9s] dispossessed of that throne of of of
[2217.3s] that position. Now Esther and um a a a
[2221.8s] selection of maybe I don't know the top
[2224.0s] bachelorets I can say of all of the
[2226.9s] kingdom of um um of this king they were
[2229.5s] all put together in one particular place
[2233.3s] yes yeah you could say that and and in
[2235.4s] Esther 2:12 to 14 you actually find what
[2239.0s] happened to every single one of these
[2240.8s] ladies we were told um in verse 13 and
[2243.6s] 14 thus h came every maiden unto the
[2247.4s] king. And whatsoever she desired was
[2249.8s] given her to go with her out of the
[2251.8s] house of the women into the king's
[2253.4s] house. And in the evening she went, and
[2255.5s] on the moral she returned into the
[2257.4s] second house of the women, to the
[2259.0s] custody of Shashgaz, the king's
[2261.4s] chamberlain, which kept the concubines,
[2263.8s] and she came in unto the king no more,
[2265.8s] except the king delighted in her, and
[2267.8s] that she and and and that she was called
[2270.0s] by name. Now, I am certain that they are
[2272.2s] not doing a study of the book of Daniel
[2274.0s] or chess or something like that.
[2275.4s] Clearly, this is not right. As a Jewish
[2278.4s] young lady, they know this is contrary
[2280.6s] to God's principles 100%. It is 100% a a
[2285.2s] a an an unJewish, you could say,
[2287.3s] behavior. But clearly, this same woman
[2290.6s] who number one did not give heed to the
[2293.3s] voice of God to go with her people.
[2295.0s] Number two, is clearly engaging in
[2296.9s] something which a noble woman called
[2298.6s] Vashi refused. So, um and was not even a
[2302.3s] Jew. Yes. So I'm not saying that Esther
[2305.0s] was like a you know e evil whatever
[2307.4s] whatever I'm saying that Esther was a
[2309.8s] backsliden was a backsliden Jew was a
[2312.9s] backsliden Jew and it's even interesting
[2314.8s] even in verse 20 it says that she lived
[2317.1s] among them and they she did not even
[2319.2s] reveal that she was a Jew that means
[2320.9s] Esther did not dress like a Jew they did
[2323.0s] not know she was a Jew did not eat like
[2325.6s] how quickly did everyone knew Daniel was
[2328.2s] different he ate like a Jew Esther did
[2330.6s] not eat like a Jew did not dress like a
[2332.8s] Jew. In fact, she speak like a Jew. She
[2335.0s] beat the non Jews in the in the pant.
[2337.8s] Exactly. Exactly. So Esther cannot be
[2340.4s] our example of saying but Esther did
[2342.8s] this, Esther did that, Esther. This
[2345.3s] story is so powerful because it reveals
[2347.6s] the grace of God to a backsliden people.
[2351.1s] Let us just see how this grace of God is
[2353.4s] being uh is being revealed. Tell us
[2356.0s] about Hammon's plot um in this story
[2358.3s] which is actually the biggest part of
[2360.1s] the book of Esther. Indeed, the Bible
[2362.6s] records that in chapter 5 of Esther that
[2365.8s] there's a gentleman called Hammon
[2368.6s] uh uh sorry um rather it begins in um in
[2373.7s] chapter three pardon me in chapter 3
[2375.7s] there's a gentleman called Hammon one of
[2377.0s] the princes but he is elevated and as a
[2380.2s] result of this elevation the king
[2382.0s] decrees and we must we must also
[2383.8s] understand that they're amongst the Mids
[2386.1s] and the Persians the Mids and the
[2387.2s] Persians the king's decree was like was
[2390.2s] like the word of God, it does not
[2392.2s] change. It does not change. It's like uh
[2394.6s] it's it's up there with the ten
[2396.0s] commandments. You know, the way God
[2397.5s] says, "I am the Lord your God, I change
[2399.2s] not." The word of the of a king uh
[2402.1s] amongst the mid and the Persians holds
[2404.0s] fast. That's why even Daniel had to go
[2405.8s] into the tomb of in the den of lions.
[2408.1s] Even though the king was even though the
[2409.3s] king was was regretful of his decree,
[2411.8s] but because he had said it and so the
[2413.6s] king elevates Hammon and he says uh and
[2416.7s] and he says Hmon should be given what?
[2419.0s] Respect. But then what happens in verse
[2421.4s] two? All the king's servants that were
[2423.5s] in the king's gate bowed and reverenced
[2425.6s] Hammon. For the king had so commanded
[2427.5s] concerning him, but Modi bowed not nor
[2430.7s] had reverence for him. And then when the
[2433.8s] when the question was asked, why does it
[2435.6s] why is it doing this? It realizes it was
[2438.0s] told them in verse verse four. For he
[2440.4s] told them that he was what? A Jew. Jew.
[2443.1s] He would have no other god except uh the
[2446.1s] god of uh Israel. the God who who is the
[2449.4s] creator, the one true God, um Yahweh.
[2452.6s] And so as a result of this, Hmon now has
[2456.1s] something against Jews. Um the same way
[2459.4s] sometimes one person hurts you and then
[2461.6s] you take you hate a whole tribe, you
[2463.8s] know. Uh it's interesting these things
[2466.6s] did not start uh recently. But
[2468.6s] eventually he decides he lays a plot to
[2471.2s] destroy the Jews. He lays a plot to
[2473.6s] destroy the Jews and he convinces the
[2475.5s] king to make a law that eventually
[2478.3s] threatens the very lives of Jews. Just
[2481.2s] tell us about um what this typifies in
[2483.9s] the um in the last days. Hammon's plot
[2486.8s] against the Jews and the decree that
[2489.0s] goes out in and how uh which decree we
[2492.3s] will see in the last days. Yes. So in
[2494.7s] the book of Esther 3:6 you find a decree
[2497.6s] a death decree that all um wherefore
[2501.7s] Hmon sought to destroy all the Jews that
[2503.4s] were throughout the whole kingdom of
[2506.1s] even the people of Modka. In fact later
[2507.8s] on you find it is at a specific date
[2510.1s] that that decree is given. In the book
[2512.2s] of um Revelation 12 from verse um um
[2516.2s] 14-17, you actually find a power that is
[2520.5s] also similarly seeking to attack and
[2522.3s] destroy God's people. Um Revelation 12,
[2526.2s] we are told um from verse um 12, we're
[2529.7s] told, "Wherefore rejoice ye heavens, and
[2531.6s] ye that dwell in them, woe to the
[2533.1s] inhabitants of the earth and the and the
[2535.2s] sea. For the devil is come down unto you
[2537.4s] having great wrath, because he knoweth
[2539.7s] that he hath by a short time." And then
[2541.2s] verse 17 we are told the dragon was
[2543.8s] angry with the woman and went to make
[2545.5s] war with the rem remnant of her seed who
[2548.1s] keep the commandments of God like being
[2550.0s] a Jew and have the testimony of Jesus.
[2553.1s] And then Revelation 13:15 we are told
[2555.8s] specifically how the devil wants to
[2558.0s] attack gospel in the last days. We are
[2560.2s] told and he has power to give life unto
[2562.7s] the image of the beast that the image of
[2564.6s] the beast should both speak and cause as
[2566.6s] many as would not worship the image of
[2568.7s] the beast should be killed. and and you
[2571.0s] actually see that that death decree and
[2572.6s] like I actually saw the paral
[2575.4s] himself did not actually have the
[2578.0s] authority to do the things he wanted to
[2579.9s] do. We if you read the book of Exodus
[2581.8s] especially chapter four chapter 5 you
[2583.5s] see that how many seeks after the ring
[2585.3s] of the king chapter three. Yeah chapter
[2587.2s] three. So actually with the ring of the
[2589.0s] king he can actually start enforcing and
[2591.4s] using it as a stamp and say a by the
[2594.7s] voice of Ashwaris this is what the king
[2597.4s] of Pia says ABCD and you actually find
[2600.4s] the same thing here that it is not that
[2602.7s] that that that that this power actually
[2604.8s] works through proxy and receives power
[2607.0s] to actually achieve its ends. similarly
[2609.7s] and we actually find a very strong
[2611.4s] similarity and and the same way that um
[2614.6s] Esther will actually go through the
[2616.0s] study shortly. You um the same way
[2618.4s] Esther and her people were were
[2620.0s] vindicated and saved is the same way we
[2622.2s] know that in in in these last days God's
[2624.2s] people will also be vindicated and
[2626.2s] saved. Amen. Amen. Um let's just talk
[2629.7s] about how God's people were delivered in
[2633.5s] the case of Hmon and Modi.
[2637.7s] Indeed. Um Hammon plots and says um
[2641.7s] comes to the king and says that these
[2643.4s] people do not keep um do not do not
[2646.7s] obey. He says there is a certain people
[2648.6s] scattered in verse 8 abroad and
[2650.5s] dispersed among the people in all the
[2652.8s] provinces of the kingdom and their laws
[2654.6s] are diverse from all people. Neither
[2656.5s] keep they the king's laws. Therefore it
[2659.0s] is not for the king's profit to suffer
[2661.0s] them. And he says make a law that they
[2663.9s] may be destroyed. and he says he will
[2666.2s] even fund this this this this this
[2668.5s] endeavor. Then in chapter four we told
[2671.0s] Modci perceived all that was done. He
[2673.7s] rents his clothes and he goes towards he
[2676.4s] goes to visit uh this adopted daughter
[2679.4s] of his. Okay. Um cuz they're told he
[2682.2s] took her in like he was her daughter.
[2684.2s] And and when when Esther is told that
[2686.9s] Modkai is is around and he's removed his
[2689.5s] um he's removed his clothes, he says um
[2693.0s] he sends that uh clothes should be given
[2695.5s] to him and eventually
[2698.6s] Modi gives uh is gets an audience uh
[2702.0s] with the queen on the throne at this
[2704.6s] particular point who is Esther. And he
[2707.4s] speaks to them and um uh and Modi gives
[2711.9s] this statement that we have we we we
[2714.0s] have known and we we have uh quoted many
[2716.7s] a time. Verse 13 says, "Then Modi
[2719.0s] commanded to answer Esther, think not
[2721.1s] with thyself that thou shalt escape in
[2723.5s] the king's house more than all the Jews.
[2726.8s] For if thou altogether holdest thy peace
[2729.0s] at this time, then shall their
[2731.2s] enlargement and deliverance arise to the
[2733.7s] Jews from another place. But thou and
[2735.9s] thy father's house shall be destroyed.
[2738.1s] And who knoweth whether thou art come to
[2739.8s] the kingdom for such a time, such a time
[2741.8s] as this? Amen. And so he he he sort of
[2745.3s] um gives um uh Esther a pep talk, I
[2748.9s] would say, to inspire her, to give um um
[2752.6s] to to motivate her to make a decision.
[2754.9s] And and and and he tells her salvation
[2757.3s] will come, but it's perhaps possible
[2760.4s] that in God's divine mind that it was
[2763.0s] supposed to come through you. The
[2764.4s] question is, will you live up to the
[2766.0s] moment? And the the fact is that Esther
[2768.4s] eventually goes goes to the king and is
[2770.8s] able to do what? He's able now to pass
[2772.8s] another decree. Not that to remove the
[2775.0s] other one. The other one still stands,
[2776.2s] but now the decree says the Jews can do
[2778.1s] whatves can defend themselves. They're
[2780.0s] given a chance to to a fighting chance.
[2782.6s] And it is through this agency that the
[2784.8s] Jews now eventually are rescued. Tell us
[2788.2s] about when the death decree in the last
[2791.0s] days. What will be the issue about in
[2793.5s] the last days? I know you mentioned it
[2795.2s] is worship but what specifically when it
[2797.4s] go when the death decree goes out and
[2799.4s] how does God deliver his people? How
[2803.0s] does God deliver his people? Amen. So
[2804.8s] the death decree um in Revelation 13:15
[2808.5s] we read was actually about um those who
[2811.5s] do not um have worship the beast or his
[2815.0s] image or and actually later in in verse
[2817.7s] 15 you actually find or even have the
[2819.4s] mark on his forehead. So you actually
[2821.9s] find the death decree has to do with
[2824.2s] worship and has to do with the mark of
[2826.6s] the beast. And what is the mark of the
[2828.2s] beast in this case? The mark of the
[2830.3s] beast in this case is that signal or
[2833.3s] author like authoritative system or so
[2836.2s] um the authoritative thing that the
[2837.8s] beast has and from the scriptures it is
[2840.0s] clear um a a study I think we've
[2843.3s] actually had it um over some some of the
[2845.4s] last few weeks uh this beast power is
[2848.1s] none other than the papal system the
[2850.9s] inheritor of the Roman Empire and all
[2853.5s] the systems of Babylon and things of
[2855.4s] that nature and the mark of the papacy
[2858.2s] is none other than Sunday sacredness
[2861.0s] which and it's actually a mark that the
[2863.2s] papacy actually boasts of. Um in fact um
[2866.6s] there was once I was reading a catechism
[2868.5s] that actually had that to that similar
[2870.3s] effect that um uh what is the mark of of
[2874.4s] her authority? Had she not power to um
[2878.2s] like why does the church have power to
[2880.2s] institute other hols? And she says had
[2882.6s] she not had that power she would not
[2884.3s] have had the authority the authority
[2887.1s] transferred the solemnity of from the
[2889.0s] Sabbath to Sunday which so all the other
[2892.2s] Christian churches acknowledge as having
[2894.6s] resulted from tradition and in fact um I
[2897.8s] was actually speaking with a friend of
[2899.0s] mine asking him about why um he's he's
[2901.8s] Anglican why do you go to church on on
[2903.7s] on Sunday he gave me one two verses but
[2906.4s] then he realized those verses were not
[2907.8s] so strong but he pointed me to tradition
[2910.0s] pointed me to Ignatius of Antioch and
[2912.2s] and uh the epistle of Barnabas and
[2915.1s] various other um non-biblical
[2917.5s] non-biblical yeah just like documents in
[2919.4s] tradition that that even some of them by
[2922.2s] the way are not even so pointed it's
[2923.8s] actually much later that it is much more
[2925.8s] clear that this thing is established in
[2928.2s] tradition and not in the scriptures and
[2930.3s] that is one of the unfortunate issues
[2932.4s] that will be um I think it's even in the
[2934.7s] Catholic cateism yes that they it is a
[2937.9s] mark of their ecclesiastical authority
[2940.6s] authority
[2941.4s] about this death decree which has to do
[2944.3s] with Sunday and um um Sunday sacredness
[2948.4s] or the Sabbath that goes out. Many
[2951.6s] Christians today will read this or even
[2953.4s] seventh day Adventists will read this
[2955.1s] who keep the Sabbath and will be
[2956.6s] troubled in their hearts and wonder how
[2959.8s] will we be delivered from this? Will we
[2962.5s] be killed when the death decree actually
[2964.6s] goes out? Will many of us be muted when
[2967.4s] the death decree goes out or will God u
[2970.6s] deliver his people the way he delivered
[2972.6s] them in the book of Esther? That's an
[2975.0s] interesting question u and and and and
[2977.5s] and
[2979.3s] has a has a lot of um has a lot of
[2981.9s] answers I would say and repercussions
[2984.2s] depending on how you how you approach
[2986.0s] the answer. The question uh um the long
[2989.0s] and short of it is that both yes and no.
[2993.4s] There will be some people who perhaps
[2996.1s] will be called to the dock. There'll be
[2998.2s] some people who perhaps will suffer for
[3000.6s] the sake of uh for the sake of
[3002.4s] righteousness. But towards the end um
[3005.3s] during the time where the probation has
[3007.0s] closed, we are told God will protect his
[3009.4s] people. If God only allows a Christian
[3012.6s] to die, a Christian to suffer if as a
[3016.2s] result of his suffering, somebody else
[3017.8s] is going to be converted. You see,
[3019.8s] Christ lays down his life. Christ dies.
[3021.9s] He sheds his blood because his blood is
[3024.5s] seed for our salvation. Even in the dark
[3027.2s] ages when the Christian church was being
[3029.1s] persecuted and they were being martyed,
[3030.7s] the blood of the matter was seed for
[3033.0s] faith. And so God never wastes our
[3036.2s] suffering. God never allows us to suffer
[3039.0s] simply for the sake of it. And in all
[3041.1s] the situations, in all the things that
[3042.6s] we pass through because of being
[3044.0s] faithful to God, more often than not,
[3046.0s] there's somebody somewhere who's going
[3047.5s] to benefit from our faithfulness.
[3049.0s] There's somebody somewhere who's going
[3050.0s] to benefit from our story. But after the
[3053.0s] close of probation where all mankind has
[3055.1s] made their decision, then though uh the
[3058.7s] devil and his forces may seek to
[3060.3s] persecute God's people, we are told that
[3062.4s] our bread and our water will be sure and
[3065.0s] God will surely and truly protect with a
[3067.5s] marvelous and powerful hand. God will
[3069.9s] deliver his people. We are told that at
[3072.5s] midnight, at midnight when they are just
[3075.9s] about to destroy, when they are just
[3077.5s] about to kill um um his people. Very
[3080.2s] wonderful chapter of God's deliverance,
[3082.6s] one of the last chapters in great
[3084.1s] controversy that at midnight the
[3086.6s] deliverance comes and we see Christ
[3088.8s] appearing in the skies and God's people
[3091.8s] are finally delivered. Um, in the same
[3094.5s] manner that the children of Israel were
[3097.2s] delivered during the time of Esther and
[3100.0s] Modi, so will God's children be
[3102.9s] delivered from the hand of Hmon. In this
[3105.0s] case, being the devil that pursues them.
[3107.5s] Of course, in the in the in the in the
[3109.3s] in the figures of states and powers and
[3112.0s] and and kingly powers of this world that
[3114.6s] try to kill the people of God, the
[3117.3s] faithful worshippers of God, eventually
[3120.5s] God will deliver them. But I want to
[3122.7s] remind you that these children of Israel
[3125.8s] were not faithful from the beginning.
[3128.3s] They turned back to God. They went back
[3130.6s] to God and fasted and prayed. You know,
[3133.7s] in the book of Hosea 14:4, the Bible
[3137.3s] says that I will heal their backsliding.
[3140.0s] Indeed, we see him healing the
[3141.8s] backsliding of Esther and Modi and the
[3145.1s] Jews who had remained there, who had
[3147.0s] backsliden. and I will love them freely
[3150.0s] for mine anger is turned away from him.
[3153.0s] God will be as due to Israel. He will
[3155.8s] come as a refreshing of the rain when
[3158.2s] they when the children of Israel do need
[3160.5s] them. And for us seven day Adventists
[3163.4s] living in these last days when that
[3165.6s] death decree goes out, God will heal us
[3168.6s] and God indeed will deliver us. I want
[3171.7s] to just give our panelists a few minutes
[3174.2s] to give us their key takeaways even as
[3177.3s] as we close our discussion this morning.
[3180.4s] I will start uh with you. Oh, thank you
[3182.6s] so much. Uh so I I think we really need
[3185.9s] to consider uh the stories of Esther and
[3189.0s] Ruth first of all as instructive. Um 1
[3192.4s] Corinthians chapter 12 I think verse 12
[3194.6s] it says that all these things were
[3196.4s] written for our enamples. Yeah. for
[3199.1s] example the ends of the world has come
[3201.3s] like there is types for us so especially
[3204.3s] in this particular story of Ruth and of
[3206.6s] Esther number one that we have a kinsman
[3209.6s] who will redeem us and give us the
[3211.7s] inheritance that we had lost and we had
[3214.3s] lost despite the unfaithfulness of God's
[3217.0s] people that God himself as a will will
[3219.9s] will will freely give us this
[3221.4s] inheritance number one and number two in
[3223.7s] the case of Esther sorry in the case of
[3225.3s] Ruth the inheritance will will be
[3226.8s] returned in the case of um uh uh uh uh
[3230.1s] Esther uh God's people will be preserved
[3232.9s] in the last days that God will protect
[3235.4s] his people. He will stand on behalf of
[3237.3s] his people and we can have faith in the
[3239.6s] promises of God. Amen. Amen. I think I I
[3244.1s] I gain um from the story of Esther that
[3247.1s] God is faithful even when we are
[3249.0s] unfaithful. It also um from the speech
[3252.2s] that Modi gives, he speaks sometimes of
[3255.6s] um of how even in our in our blindness,
[3259.9s] you know, you see the way he speaks with
[3261.8s] a lot of Jewish pride, you know, and and
[3264.6s] he doesn't bow yet, he he doesn't bow to
[3268.5s] to Hmon, yet he similarly also doesn't
[3271.3s] bow completely to God by being in
[3273.5s] transgression. Sometimes we can have a
[3275.4s] form of religion and and we're really
[3277.8s] we're really strong about it, but we we
[3281.0s] we we fight for the Sabbath and we do
[3283.3s] all these things, but then are we right
[3285.9s] with the Lord of the Sabbath? Are we
[3287.6s] doing the things that God wants to do
[3289.0s] for us? But I think even in the midst of
[3290.5s] of of of this confusion that we have and
[3292.8s] and and and and and that sometimes we
[3295.2s] find ourselves in as Christians, you
[3296.6s] know, in terms of our identity and how
[3298.1s] we behave through it all, the devil
[3301.4s] wants to destroy us, but God still
[3303.2s] defends us. That's that's a wonderful
[3305.4s] story of love. God who is faithful to us
[3308.3s] even when we are not 100% faithful to
[3311.7s] him. And so it's a wonderful story. The
[3313.8s] story of Ruth also to me speaks to me
[3315.6s] and tells me that God considers even the
[3318.1s] widows. You know, God considers uh the
[3321.1s] considers and and and and God can pair
[3324.0s] up and sometimes even your ethnicity
[3325.8s] doesn't matter. So you see Ruth was a
[3328.4s] Moabitetish woman. Faithfulness to God
[3330.7s] is she was faithful. She said she became
[3333.7s] a Jew when she said your God shall be my
[3336.6s] God. That's the thing that's the thing
[3338.2s] that that is most important. Your
[3339.6s] background doesn't matter where you've
[3341.0s] been. Doesn't matter. But as long as we
[3343.0s] we we we trust in God and we we
[3345.4s] subscribe to him fully wholeheartedly
[3347.6s] abandoning all others, abandoning our
[3349.8s] homes and being faithful to this to this
[3352.7s] foreign land and to this God, God always
[3355.6s] comes through. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[3359.0s] And you know the story of Ruth reminds
[3360.8s] us that despite her affliction and
[3363.0s] bitterness and cries, her story at the
[3365.8s] latter end became even more beautiful
[3368.9s] than what she had anticipated. She ended
[3371.4s] up being one of the great great
[3373.4s] grandmothers of Christ himself. The
[3375.6s] lineage of Christ comes through this
[3378.3s] woman who said, "My name is no longer
[3380.2s] pleasant, but it is bitterness." Yet God
[3382.8s] through that bitterness formed something
[3385.4s] extremely beautiful. And the story of
[3387.9s] Esther again reminding us that God still
[3391.4s] reveals his grace to a backsliding
[3394.2s] people. God wants to deliver his people
[3396.3s] in these last days. You know the book of
[3398.2s] Romans 15:4 says that whatever was
[3401.5s] written a four time was written for our
[3405.0s] learning that we through patience and
[3408.8s] comfort of the scriptures we might have
[3411.4s] hope. These have have been written so
[3414.4s] that we might have hope that we will be
[3416.3s] delivered. It has been written so that
[3418.2s] we can be patient with God because God
[3421.2s] ultimately will deliver us. I pray that
[3423.8s] Ruth and Esther gives you comfort and
[3426.9s] gives you hope in Christ. Brother
[3429.8s] Raphael, kindly pray with us as we
[3431.7s] close.
[3435.4s] Pray.
[3437.3s] Our kind and loving father and master in
[3439.2s] heaven. We humbly come before you this
[3440.8s] blessed day. We're thankful, oh Lord,
[3442.6s] for your goodness and for your mercies.
[3444.6s] And we ask dear Lord indeed as you are
[3447.4s] faithful in the lives of Ruth and in the
[3449.4s] lives of Esther I pray may you enable us
[3452.6s] to be esters of today wherever we are
[3456.2s] may we rise up to the occasion may be
[3458.0s] faithful in such a time as this and dear
[3460.7s] Lord in all the things that we are going
[3462.3s] through like Ruth I pray may you be our
[3465.3s] God and may you guide us and lead us.
[3467.4s] This is our most humble prayer believing
[3468.8s] and trusting in you. Amen. Amen. Amen.