Title: Lesson 13 || Love is the Fulfillment of the Law || 1st Quarter 2025
Video ID: MRre7dMNFrk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MRre7dMNFrk
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Good morning and a happy Sabbath wherever you're joining us from. Some of us may be in the evening. Good evening to you and welcome to New Life SDA Church. We're glad you chose us as your church of choice and we hope you had a great week. We want to thank God for another week and coming to the end of this quarter. What an amazing quarter it's been. a whole 13 lessons later and we have come to understand that God is a God of love. He's a God of justice but he's also a loving loving God and I hope by now you're feeling and you feel that you understand God just a little bit better maybe before you begun. My name is Masio Dora will be your moderator this morning and with me I'm joined by an amazing panel. We've come this far my dear friends and so we shall introduce ourselves before we start this lesson. Shall we start with you Elder? I greet you all in Jesus name. Hallelujah. Amen. Thank you so much. I'm Elder Engine Peroya from this church. Welcome. Happy Sabbath. Uh my name is Irene Jahenda and I'll be part of this uh panel today. Amen. Happy Sabbath. My name is Enongo Rafael. It's a pleasure to be with you this morning. Amen. Happy Sabbath everyone. It's a pleasure also to have joined us through the 13th Sabbath. And now as we end we pray that may the Holy Spirit lead us all through. My name is Roto Gandho. Amen. And online we've got our sister. Happy Sabbath and praise the Lord. My name is Reuka and it's always a pleasure to serve. Amen. And I uh as we always said, Reise, we thank God for you. You always have to wake up so early to join us. So thank you. We want to pray as we begin our lesson this morning. Shall we pray? Father in heaven, thank you for an opportunity to serve you. We're not here because we are better than anybody else. We're here because you have chosen to use us as your vessels. That you may teach us, that we may be instrumental to others learning. We pray that God, you'll speak to us first. May the spirit of God fill us. May he be our teacher this morning. And father Lord, may you use us to the honor and glory of your name. Speak to us this day. We pray in Jesus name. Amen. This morning we're looking at uh so last week, let's let's talk about last week. So last week we looked at the two greatest commandments. What amazing. And we looked at the commandments of God that says to love God and to love one another. So today we're looking at the end of this lesson. We we began with love and now we come to the end with love. And so today we're looking at love as the fulfillment of the law. And our memory verse today comes from Romans chapter 13:8. And the Bible says, "Owe no man anything except to love one another. For he who loves another has fulfilled the law." I wonder if you love one another because only in the loving one another do we fulfill the law. And our lesson writer this this had a very interesting story when talking about you know a a a church board a church board meeting that was dealing with what you would call a disciplinary action. So, a problematic church member and one of the church members uh the church board members says we cannot use compassion to make decisions. And the pastor was very very surprised as I would be because the pastor wondered how then do we make decisions to correct members in the church? If we cannot use compassion, then what shall we use? Because we learned as we did in the past quarter that God is a God of compassion. So, how is it that the children of God would not have compassion for one another? And so we find it that compassion is at the heart and in the middle of all that is God. And so certainly when we look at especially when we're dealing with those who are ingring there is no way we cannot deal with them with compassion. And as someone who deals with young people I know just how every day you have to deal with compassion with the young people and mistakes that we all make but sometimes we forget because we're older. And so sometimes we forget that we were there. And so as children of God, how is it that we would choose to use a law or rules but forget that they must be guided and bound in the boundaries of love and compassion. So this morning, if love is indeed the fulfillment of the law as as we are told today, then we should be careful not to think of the law as the way to separate that we can separate the law from love. In essence, think of love as the fulfillment of the law. That is why Jesus had to go to the cross. Jesus went to the cross because he had to fulfill the requirements of the law and his death was a death of love in response to his airing children. He went to the cross. The law demanded justice and Jesus went to the cross to fulfill that law so that love because he his death was a death of love. So today we look at God's law not as a set of abstract principles but commands but commands and instructions intended for flourishing God's for our flourishing. So God looks at this as it is meant for our own growth but not to kill us if you know what I mean. So God's law in totality as is an expression of God's love expressed by himself. So this morning I want us to look at the law of love and oper I want to come to you because if we then say that God's law is not is not just abstract principles but instead is an expression of a relationship then what is this law of love? Uh thank you so much uh sister Merci and to all our viewers from whichever part of the third planet you are watching from. I want to uh uh like you've said what is it about this Lord of love and I want to bring our attention to the introductory parts of this study which we have been having. One of our first lesson was God's love freely. God loves freely and then there was covenantal love. In our study we found step by step that God's love is relational. It is not just unidirectional. It is multi- it comes and he expects us also to reciprocate in equal magnitude. Though we may not match his, we cannot. But we found one thing. God wants to be in a relationship with us. And we found out that uh God's love is not just the agape as we have always thought of. But we found that it is also filial. It goes it can have a personal relationship with us. And we found out that be it is because of this love that we can please God truly. We found that we can please him. And we found out that God's love is just as sister Marcias put it. Now on the question of this um uh uh on on our study today that the law of love we found out that why is it the law of love? Because it defines our relationship. It defines our relationship. Every relationship must have parameters upon which it operates. That is why it is not just abstract of dos and don'ts but it defines relationship. It is not just a law of dos and don'ts but it defines our relationship how we relate with our creator with our redeemer. And it is not only limited to that. We find out that it also extends. Last time we looked at the two commandments and it is still reflected here. It goes to our relationship with one another because God has always wanted to be in a relationship with us. That is why for him to be in a relationship with us, it has to be defined within some parameters of what what pleases him. If you want to please God, what is it that pleases God? We realize that heaven rejoices when a sinner comes back to Christ. It makes heaven happier. So how do we make our savior and our creator happier? When we discard the evil ways and come back to him that ensures it is relational. I want to us to look at the commandments the the book of Exodus just at the introductory part not even reading the commandments but look beloved when you read Exodus chapter 20 how it begins and God spoke all these words saying I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt out of the house of bondage. You see it first of all starts by God saying that I am the Lord your God. But one thing is also important that this law of love existed before this writing the ten commandments were written. Even in the garden of Eden the law already existed even in heaven. It was already existing because otherwise why was the devil chased out? because he had gone against some principles of relation of relationship. In the garden of Eden, Adam and Eve were told not to eat. That was already for them to maintain their relationship with the creator. There were parameters upon which they were to operate. You remember they were to pick manner but they were told to pick for six days but they could not pick on the seventh day. The law of relationship was already existing. It was only expressed in writing after they had come out of Egypt. That one shows us that truly is the law is the law of love which reveals the intentions of God, his desires for us to make us prosper, to make us live happily and with him and with one another. Thank you so much. Amen. And so in that sense we look at the entirety of God's love is God's law is grounded in his love. I want to come to you Reise because then it's very easy then to ask yourself then how can you then express this law of love for God and for others if you're breaking one of the commandments. Now we've looked at the ten commandments. Is it possible for you then to express this love if you're breaking one of them? No. It is impossible to say that you love God and you love your neighbor and you're not keeping the commandments. Just like the same way with the traffic lights rules or the traffic laws, when you miss one and something goes wrong, it is fatal. It's a matter of life and death. And you cannot just tell the police or whoever is in charge of law administration that I just broke one, I just skipped the light. No, the consequences are fatal. And so you cannot risk with that. And we see that every commandment whether that of worshiping God or treating others is based on love. If we love God fully, we will worship him and and him alone and also keep his commandments. And if we love others genuinely, then we will not lie them and do all those things. And you see also the Lord remind us that if you love me, keep my commandments. That is John 14:15. So there is no way we can escape keeping any of the commandments. and also claim to love God in our neighbors. Because as Operia has read also in the book of Exodus 20, when you read now the commandments, you'll find that the first four relate to God and the other six relates to our relationship with each other. And so if we break one, you've broken all. It is that simple. Amen. Wow. Thank you, Reese. I want to come to you on song to look at the law that is holy and righteous and good. And we're told that the reason um one of the reason why Jesus came, he did not come to do away with the law but to fulfill it. So talk to us about why the law is holy and righteous. Indeed. Um I would like to build on what Elder Opere has already uh laid out for us. Even that in heaven when Lucifer or Satan as he's now known was thrown out, it was because it was a violation of God's law. And so this same law is the same is is what required Christ to die. This law said that where there is sin or transgression then blood must be shed because the penalty of sin is what is death. And so we see even Christ himself coming and and and and observing this same law and and trying to demonstrate that the law is love and that and that and that this law is so loving that it it and and so truthful and so just that uh and so righteous and holy that even if it involved him dying, he was willing to do it so that he might fulfill the law, so that love may be fulfilled. And so uh we're speaking in an in a time and in an age in which we live uh with the reality of messages that tell us that the law is not important and reality of messages that tell us that we're living in the dispensation of grace and many a time many use the writings of Paul and so today we're going to consider from the book of Romans chapter 6 verse 1-3 what exactly does Paul say is the relationship between the law and grace should we then do away with the law because we have been saved by grace. You know, did Christ come and like Moses perhaps uh having died on the cross, did he smash the ten commandments like Moses when he came down? But the Bible tells us a different story reading from the book of Romans 6:1-3. And it says, "What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound?" Shall we say that we've been saved by grace? Therefore, we can sin the way we want. You know we have had wonderful uh wonderful um fairy tales I would call them of what grace can do for you. you know that as long as you've you have accepted Christ you can do anything and when he comes he will he will pick you and he will go you know we are saved the way we are you know even in whatever lifestyles even if the lifestyles that we have approached the lifestyles that we are living are against the Bible we we believe uh that God's love and God's grace can cover um for us outside of the law and so Paul is writing and is asking shall we continue to sin that grace may abound. In what sense? In in chapter 5 and verse verse 20, it tells us the importance of the law. It says, "Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound." That the law also tells us, it has a function, you know, like a loving parent correcting a child lovingly, telling them, "This is not the way you wear shoes. You know, this is not the way you do X, Y, or Z. this is not the way you address people in society. That's the function of the law. But it does that in love. But where an offense has been done, grace indeed does come and abound, which is that unmmerited favor that that uh and grace is actually um salvation in essence. It's a tool through which we receive salvation. In Galatians 2 and:8 we're told, no rather in Ephesians 2:8 it says we have been saved by grace through faith you know and so grace offers opens to us salvation and so grace did much abound where there was sin. And it continues and says in verse 21 that as sin hath reigned unto death even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. So we see many people think that grace now does away with the law. But now Paul is saying we cannot continue to sin so that grace may abound. It says in verse two, God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? It says it simply tells us that if truly we have received the grace of God which is the gift of salvation through faith in Christ then we like Christ have died to sin. We like Christ have died to sin and therefore we in essence to a certain extent um cannot live any longer in sin. And then he says in verse three, "Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized unto Christ Jesus were baptized unto his death." As Christ came and died, as Marcia has has read to us from Romans 3:2 and 26, that he could be both the just and the justifier of those who believe. We likewise, if we truly believe in him, then have also died, taken part together with him, dying to sin. Now the second verse that we are called to consider the second text uh uh series of text comes from Romans chapter 7 7-12 and and Paul himself writes and says what shall we say then is the law sin you know is the law synonymous with sin you know uh is is that person who tells you what error is synonymous with with error the answer is obviously no the law is simply that which lights the the room for us to see even as We are seen for us to know what is going on to see the architecture of our lives. And he continues and says, "God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin but by the law. For I had not known lust except the law had said, thou shalt not coveret." You know, the law is like a teacher. It simply explains to us our world and how we are to interact with it in order for us to be saved. It it it enables it enables us to know where we are deficient and where we have need for for the grace of God. and his righteousness. And it continues and says, "But sin taking occasion by the commandment wrought in me all manner of concupisence, for without the law, sin was dead." Indeed, sin does not exist if there is no law. As we said, uh Lucifer would not have been chased from heaven if he had not violated a statute or a law of God. And as we've seen that the law of God is summarized in love. That the law of God is his character. When you look at the laws of a nation and we say this is this is a lawless nation, it means that perhaps in in its laws there are no there are no rules and regulations governing how men and women are supposed to engage in a free and fair manner in where in a in a in a manner in which those who are are weak in society are protected and those who are strong are regulated in terms of their power and of their influence. And so the Bible continues and says in verse 9, "For I was alive without the law once, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died, and the commandment which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death." And he continues and says, "For sin, taking occasion by the commandment deceived me, and by it did what? It slew me." In verse 12, he says, "Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy and just and good." You see, he's saying even if it tells us where we are wrong, even if it exposes our error, it exposes our nakedness, that it is important for the emperor to know that he is naked. You know, for us to be able to know that we need to put on clothes, we need to know the the law is like is like when you go to the doctor and you get a right diagnosis, therefore, you can get the proper cure. But without the law then we suffer and we are sick and we do not know the way of salvation. And so the law is holy. The law is righteous. The law is good. And the law is a description of the character of Christ. When we come to our day and our age, Christ himself says in Matthew 5:18, it says until heaven and earth pass away, not even the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law. He says he himself did not come to do away with it but he came to fulfill the law. And so Christ is uh the law and the law is love and God and his law are one. That's why even when Moses was given the law and the commandments they were written in stone almost showing uh their immortal immortal nature almost showing uh their permanence in the kingdom of God. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much ongo a reminder that the law is the representation of God's character. Uh something has struck me which has really inspired me. Verse 12 says, "Therefore the law is holy and the commandment holy and just and good." You know the law is holy. What makes it holy? Because the author is holy. The law is eternal because the author is eternal. So the law is holy because God is holy and this law is a character of God who is holy. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Amen. Ruth, you want to say something? Yeah, sure. Um the concept of um the law that is holy um if we pick it that the concept of the law as a mirror. Now if you go and stand by the mirror and you look yourself at it, you will notice uh like that is who you are. Assuming there's something that is wrong with any assuming maybe for example your face has a mark and you feel that that mark should not be there. What do you do? Do you hit the mirror for showing you that this is a mark? Definitely not. What you do? You take maybe a cloth and wipe what is on your face. So ideally the law exposes the sin and we are able to notice where we are wrong so that we can come out of it. But on our own we cannot make it until we invite the gift of the Holy Spirit and God himself through Christ so that he can help us to overcome sin. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much uh for those additions because another thing that another controversy that we find in the in the I think in the Christian uh church world today is when people say that we are not in the dispensation of the law. So the law is regarded as something that happened in the Old Testament and we are in the dispensation of grace. Does that then mean that the law and grace are opposed to one another? No. The law and grace are not opposed to one another. In fact, law and grace are not opposites but work together to reveal God's plan of salvation. Amen. The law shows us our need for grace and grace empowers us to keep the law. Amen. And you see basically as Ruth and Ongo have right rightfully said that the law reveals the sin. Grace provides forgiveness. Amen. The law acts as a mirror. It shows us what is right and wrong. Grace cleanses us. When we fail, grace offers forgiveness and renewal. Then grace does not abolish the law. It strengthens it. Jesus kept the law perfectly, but also extended grace to sinners. Grace does not cancel obedience but inspires obedience out of love. Then grace transforms us to obey the law from the heart. And that is legalism is trying to obey the law to be saved. But grace is God changes our hearts. So we obey out of love. And that's why when we continue to read the lesson, we find that the relationship between law and grace is beautifully demonstrated in Jeremiah 31 31-34 and also John 3:1-21. These passages show that God's law is not just about external rules but about a heart transformation that comes through grace. In Jeremiah 31:31-34, the law is written in our hearts. And here we see there are two covenants. The old covenant, the law on stone which ongo as and oper described. We see that people are given commandments but they struggled to keep them. Then we come and find the new covenant low on our hearts. And we see that God transforms hearts through his grace enabling true obedience. And we can think of a school where there are students following rules only because they fear punishment. But if the teacher inspires them to love learning, they obey from the heart. God similarly does not just give laws. It changes our hearts such that we want to obey. And that's why in Ezekiel 36 26 we are told that I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. So we can see from this that obedience should not come from fear but a transformed heart. And when we experience God's love, following his law becomes a joy and not a burden. And as we continue in the book of John 3:1-21, we see that grace brings spiritual rebirth as demonstrated in the life of Nicodemus. Nicodemus knew the law but lacked grace. He followed religious rules but had no spiritual transformation. Then Jesus explained that new birth is through the Holy Spirit, not just outward obedience but inner renewal through grace. And we can see that a person can know the Bible, go to church and avoid breaking laws yet lack a personal relationship with Jesus. Just like Nicodemus, they need to be born again to experience grace that makes obedience natural, not forced. And that's why John 3:16 reminds us, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have a life. So we are not saved by keeping the law but once we are saved we desire to keep it. Grace gives us new life. We obey God not to be saved but because we are already saved. Amen. Oh amen Reese. Amen indeed. Ah that is just that reminder that yes we cannot save ourselves by keeping the law. And ongo let me just ask you in terms of what is your hope then in judgment? you know, is it because you're a diligent and faithful lawkeeper or is it because of the righteousness of Jesus Christ that covers you? Because that then helps us understand the function of God's law in terms of what it can or cannot do. Indeed, I think u everybody who will stand righteous at the judgment will be because of Christ's righteousness. You see, I think in Christ we find both uh the law and grace. It's like in the you go into the into the into the sanctuary, you know, in the most holy place, we find the ark of the covenant. Inside the ark of the covenant is the law of God. But where God sits in in this ark of the covenant, where his seat is, it's called the mercy seat. You see, it's a balance between law and grace. And so, we are saved by grace, but also the law is equally important. And so it's not lawkeeping or legalism as we call it that saves us, but it is rather a relationship with Christ Jesus that has a combination of both the law and the grace of God. Amen. That brings me to a question for you, Perry, because um in this many many a times as a church we've been accused of being legalistic, you know, so the people say that we keep the Sabbath, we we're basically just lawkeepers. Is that the case? You know, because talk to somebody who's only heard of about Adventists and the only thing they know about us is that we are lawkeepers. We keep talking about the commandments of God and especially the fourth commandments. What would you tell somebody like that? Uh I think um that is um a misconception and a misunderstanding. But the true position as madame my sister Renu has put it that grace gives the way to salvation. It does not cancel obedience but inspires it. I think that one came out very well that grace does not cancel obedience but it inspires us to obey because he say the Bible says if you love me you will keep my commands. Let me ask you my brother and sister who is watching how would you say if you loved God would you continue worshiping other idols? The answer is no. Would you say you love God and then you misuse his name? No. Would you say you love your neighbor while you are coveret his wife? Would you say so? Or would you say you love your father and mother while you disobey them? Would you say you love your neighbor while you steal his property? It is not possible. So you find out that when we love God as it was said that um when because we have been saved now we obey the laws because we have been saved. We are not keeping the laws in order to be saved. But this one obedience is now a reflection a response of the salvation we've gotten in Christ. Just like the positive response of plants to light is photo tropism. Um and the obedient response positive response of plants to soil or touch is tigotropism. Our positive response to God's love is obedience and that is what is called grace. So the commandments of God, the will of God are 10. And he has said it is expressed even before the commandments were written he created for six days but on the seventh day he rested blessed and made it allowed it and he commanded us to do the same. So when we keep the commandments it is because we love God and it is because we've been saved by Christ. So it is not about legalism. It is not about keeping the commandments especially the fourth in order to be saved but we do that because already we have been saved and do you know what even as the world comes to an end the biggest battle the devil does not want people to know the truth because the fourth commandment is where the seal of God is it because it gives us the express explanation we worship him because he's the creator and when we miss that then it means the door will be open to worship anything and that is what the devil does not want us because he continues to fight and disputes God the sovereignity of God as the creator and also the redeemer. Thank you so much. Amen. Thank you. Thank you Elder Operry. Irene I recall a while back some some many quarters back we discussed a lesson on debt you and I and I remember uh so looking at Romans 13:8 the Bible says that owe no one anything except to love one another so at that time we were saying we should owe nothing so we should not be debtors but in this case today we are being talked about to have the debt of love that we owe others to love one another and that way we fulfill the law so talk to us about the fact that go love is the fulfillment of the law. Thank you sister Marci. Um when we talk about uh love as a fulfillment of the law and uh just it being stated very clearly in the book of Romans chapter 13 8-10 in terms of Paul telling us he who loves one another has fulfilled the law and us not owing each other anything but love uh to one another. And through this loving one another, we are being put in a position of showing so much so much uh to each other and fulfilling what God intends of us. And we are able to see even um when Moses is uh leading the the Israelites to the promised land and at the point where now God is able to take Moses and give him the the commandments and we've just been able to see through the discussion that um God is the author of the commandments and God being a God of love, God being a God of justice, we are able to see that through his commandments there is a lot of love that is spoken uh through that there is a lot of justice that is also coming out loudly through his commandments and in a summary the the Paul is able to describe to us that we have the the the summary of the commandments after loving God we have do not steal do not kill do not commit adultery and all these are ways to to are summing up uh in manners of how we should show love um to one another and through this uh uh keeping of these particular commandments we are being told that this is the ultimate fulfillment of the law. Um we are now coming to the book of uh Galatians 5:4 and here Paul is explaining all the law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor just as you love yourself. But the big question is uh what kind of love is that which fulfills the law? And we are going to come down to just see uh what are some of these actions that we are actually being directed to that will show that we are actually loving each other. So in the book of Matthew chapter 23 I'll uh us just to go to Matthew chapter 23 23 and 24 and I will read it out to us. Woe to you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin and have neglected the weightier matters of the law that is justice, mercy and faith. Those you ought to have done without leaving the others undone. And I believe even in the previous lesson we were able to just dive in in terms of what are the weightier matters of the law and what what is um uh Jesus saying out to the Pharisees in terms of what counts and uh what is deemed uh very heavy when it comes to kingdom matters because for the Pharisees they were paying tithe um of mint and anise and cumin and they were seeing that this this is what uh pleases the Lord. But Jesus is here to just tell us we should not neglect the weightier matters, matters of justice, masters of uh showing mercy, matters of faith um in our lives. Uh these are what um actually counts when we talk of uh the weightier matters of the law. And when we go to the book of Deuteronomy chapter 5 12, we are able to see in terms of the commandments of the Lord, in terms of uh the laws of the Lord, we were able to see that through the creation story and how God created us, how God created the universe and everything that is in it. and he was able to dedicate six days to to the work and he was able to set aside a specific day for rest and this day is the Sabbath day whereby God's command uh to us is that we keep it holy. We delight in it and Deuteronomy 5:12 actually just uh is able to echo that and bring bring it out to us in a very loud way. And it says, "Observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy as the Lord your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work. But on the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord your God. In it you shall you shall do no work. uh nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your cattle, stranger who's within your gates, that your male servant, your female servant may rest as well as you. And you seeing that within this God is actually instructing us that this day is a day of delight. And this day is a day of keeping it holy and reflecting on the good works of the Lord. and even the day being intertwined in terms of when God brought the Israelites um from Egypt and out of the slavery and out of the bondage. He tells us even during this day, it's a reflection of his justice uh to his people, the Israelites. It's a reflection of his goodness to us and what he's even uh given to us in terms of his love and justice uh for good. And just to look at how are we able to show delights uh for the Sabbath? How are we able to to to recognize it and keep it holy? And it says in the book of Isaiah chapter 58:E3 uh uh and 14, the emphasis uh is on the works of love and justice for others in terms of feeding the hungry, housing the homeless, um clothing the naked, visiting the sick. And these are some of the ways we are able to show delight, observe the Sabbath, and keep it holy. And as I finish it, um it says that for sure that love is a fulfillment of the law. And I was when I was just uh reading through this, I was able to just reflect on the fact that even in our households, we have rules and some can be uh rightly outspoken and some can be uh silent rules. But within these rules they set um the boundaries in terms of what can be done, what cannot be done, how are we showing love, how are we uh relating in this uh uh in this uh family setup, how are we doing things so that we do not cross some boundaries, we do not step on some toes and we remain um in good relation with each other. And through this we are we are encouraged to be actively involved in matters and actions of doing good. And we've just been able to see that for us to be able to show love, to show justice, grace, and faith in in what we're doing is through being uh in action in terms of giving food to the hungry, in terms of sheltering the homeless, income in terms of um clothing those who are naked, visiting the sick, visiting those who are in prison. These are some of the things that we are encouraged to do. Not to be there passively and uh talking about love but uh being there actively in our actions uh to show love to each other and with that we are basically fulfilling the law of God. Thank you. Thank you Irene. uh just that understanding of the fact that sometimes we look at the law as just thou shalt not but today we're being told God is reminding us this is also the active part of it which is that sin is in two ways the sin of commission what that which you do or do not do but also the sin of omission and that which sometimes we ignore which is have you helped the the poor among uh in your neighborhood in this church are there poor people who you nobody even knows that they are poor because nobody has gone and reached out to them. Is there someone suffering around you including your own family members and we have not done anything about it? The Lord is saying that the fulfillment of the law is that no man nothing but to love them and in love is a love is an action word. We tell children that love is a doing word which is you cannot say you love by just claiming. Love must be seen in action. And I pray that the Lord would open up our eyes to see what love truly is. Ruth, above all others, love one another. That's the one commandment that God has called us to say, love one another. What does that mean for you? Um, thank you so much. Um, love one another. Uh, indeed the whole of the Bible and since we started this quarter, it has been about love and the expression of the whole scriptures is about love. The Bible is a love letter expressed from God himself unto us. so that we can reciprocate in the same manner. Just as my sister said that love is a doing word. It's a verb. So we ought to also act in it. If love is the fulfillment of the law, then one cannot keep God's law in the full sense simply by refraining from doing wrong things. The law of love itself not only commands us to refrain from doing evil, but the law prompts us to do acts that reveal the love of God to others. So the way that we can reveal is by being in action to one another. My sister Irene has really reflected on the same and I want to quote from the book of Matthew chap 25 31-46 when God will be separating the sheep and the gods and he keeps on telling them until you do to the least of these the least of these in our society they are everywhere and sometimes someone gets money and says that I cannot be able to support each and every person because the man I have is entitled to me but God has given us as words and he has called us so that we can be partakers of him uh with him in making sure that all humanity is being served. Now I want us to consider the book of James 2:es 1-9. And as we do that I want us to put in mind that every person responds positive to compassion including animals. Some of us who will have pets like cats and dogs, anytime you show compassion unto an animal, they will entirely be royal unto you. Now, uh, chapter 2:es 1 to 11, I want to read just a couple of verses. The Bible says, "My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring in godly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile Raymon, and you have respect to him that we the gay clothing, and say unto him, sit here in a good place, and say to the poorest, stand thou there, or sit under my foottool. Are you not then partial in yourself and are be and become judges of evil thoughts? How can my beloved brethren? Hath not God chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and hes of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him? But you have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you and draw uh before judgments and seats. And I want just to jump to verses 10 that says, "For whosoever keep the whole law and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all. For he that said, do not commit adultery also said do not kill. Now if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law. So it's just an emphasis that we should not have that veil that we can be able to separate people and segregate them according to who they are, but rather let's have the eyes of Christ. How does Christ look at us from a point of love? We might someone might be low at some certain point but that one does not define who is going to be forever. Remember that times change everything whatever might be having today tomorrow might not be there. What is your stand even when you are in abound and when you don't have? God reminds us that at all times we should express love. And how can we express this true love as written in the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 13 4 5 and 6 that says and although I bestow all goods to feed the poor and though I give my body to be burnt and have not charity which can be translated as love it profited me nothing. So love severeth long and is kind. Love enviate north. Love vaunteth not itself and is not puffed up. Love does not behave itself and seemingly seeking not her own. It is not easily provoked, thinkketh no evil, rejoices not in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth. So all these things when we bear them, then we are expressing the true love unto our God. And now as we express this true love unto our our loved one, let us remember I want to quote from the book of Ellen White that says love to a man is the earth manifestation of the love of God. Um it was so implant it was so implant with this love to make us children of one family that the king of glory becomes one with us. And when his parting words are fulfilled, love one another as I have loved you. When we have when we love the world as he has loved it, then for us his mission is accomplished. We are fitted for heaven for we have heaven in our hearts. Anytime that you express this love unto others, then that ultimately shows that we have heaven in our hearts. And many people out there can be able to reciprocate. Just the same way you smile at someone, it is a contagious thing, they will definitely smile back at you. And whenever we do good works unto our brethren, they will also reciprocate by doing the same unto other people. Because the love that they have received in their hearts cannot keep them calm. It will make them be a bit uncomfortable until they have expressed it forward to another person. And Jesus commands us his followers to love one another even as he has loved us. Let us maintain that love. And when we do it, we do it wholeheartedly, not with veils of where we can feel like I'm doing it for the sake of what I'm going to get. Sometimes uh maybe in church you can contribute to someone just because you know that is going to contribute to to you next time. But when we do it out of love, knowing that it is part of my compassion that I ought to express to someone else, then when we do that, we do it regardless of who of who you are choosing to contribute to. Now sometimes people have said that they go to visitations of homes where they feel maybe the homes are convenient with them. They they maybe uh transport and everything else but they will not choose to go to people's houses where they feel that there's a bit uncomfortable or this someone cannot offer to s certain standards but we're being called to express love wholeheartedly without any favor but make sure that everyone receives as God could have wished us to receive it. Thank you. Amen, Ruth. That is so challenging. And I'd like to challenge my panelist this morning in asking ourselves, we are in a church where I've been listening to a pastor this week who's been covering the week of prayer for the young people. And one of the question he was asking is that how is it that we can be in a church where we do not talk to one another that there are people who go to foot washing and cannot wash each other's feet because we hate each other in the house of God. How is that even a Christian church, beloved? So if there's one of us sitting here or listening to us today this morning and you have somebody in the church of God who whose home you cannot go to or who you do not think is worth of your time or there's someone you actually hate enough that you cannot go into their house or do not talk to then we do need a transformation. We do need this lifechanging love of God to change us first because we cannot say we love God. We cannot see and we cannot love my brother who I live with on a day-to-day basis. So may the Lord challenge us. And today we've been told above all love one another. Do you love one another? Do you love your husband? Do you love your wife? Do you love your children? Because sometimes the home setting is the one place that is so difficult sometimes to live with one another in peace. Interestingly, children of God, do you love one another? Your closing remarks, my dear panelists, as you think through that this morning, beloved of God, the quote from the book uh Desire of Ages from our sister Ellen Wer talks about those who minister to others will be ministered unto by the chief shepherd. They themselves will drink of living water and will be satisfied. They will not be longing for exciting amusement or some changes in their lives. The great topic of interest will be how to save the souls that h are ready to perish. Social intercourse will be profitable. The love of the redeemer will draw hearts together in unity. So when we realize that we are workers together with God, his promises will not be spoken with indifference. They will burn in our hearts and kindle upon our lips. To Moses who who when called to minister to an ignorant indic in disciplined and rebellious people, God gave the promise that my presence shall go with thee and I will give thee rest. And he said certainly I will be with you. And that comes from Exodus 33. The promise is to all who labor in Christstead for his afflicted and suffering ones. So the Lord is promising us today that if we go to minister to others from a desire of love that he has promised as he promised Moses, I will be with you. My presence will go with you. So beloved of God, when the Lord calls you to the far lands, if there are people languishing in places like Trana in this country that are far hard to reach, are we willing to go to Trana for mission? Are we willing to go to hard places? as my sister Ruth has said, where you have to live in uncomfortable circumstances just so that you can reach a soul that is ready to perish because that is the calling God has called you to and that is the call of love, the fulfillment of the law. My brother Opere, your closing remarks. On that same note, I want to say that um it is true, it is an honor God has given us that in the same spirit, we can extend love to one another, the world or the other people who may not have gotten the privilege of getting the message. We should love the world like Christ loved the world. The loving the world here in this context is not partaking in the worldly things which are sinful against God but loving the world that having the burden that others who have not gotten the good news of salvation may also get it. In Ephesians chapter 2 verse 80 says, "For by grace you have been saved through faith and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them." One thing which gives me joy is that we have been elevated to an extent that we are co-workers with God. Co-workers to do what? To share this good news. And imagine God prepared that we should be involved in this work as co-workers with him. Not by our own, but it is an honor God has given us. This is the love God wants us also to extend to others. And the joy is that when we do this as Matthew 5:14-16 says that we are the salt of the world. We are the light of the world. A city built on a hill cannot be hid. No one lights a lamp and puts under a bushel basket but on top of the lampstand so that people can see the light and give glory to our father in heaven. May we do whatever we do out of the love to give glory and honor to our father in heaven. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Wow. Um I can just commend the beautiful flow of the of the lessons for the week in terms of us starting out uh in the law of love and um God the author of the law being love. uh we are seeing the law uh is holy and righteous in terms of this is God's personality in him being holy and righteous law and grace in terms of God being graceful merciful to us and um finally what we are expected to do after going through the law and understanding the law and just seeing the personality and the touch of God in the law And what is striking is that even as we read through the law and the commandments that God has given us, one thing is for sure, the commandments are not to keep us away from God. The commandments are to bring us close to God. And just being able to to show this love to one another is is is the best thing that we could do. Thank you. Amen. SA I think in in reflecting sometimes in as much as uh going back to the question on legalism uh in in in as much as sometimes we we we would like to endeavor to keep the law of God by of in and of ourselves. I think it's difficult from from my own experience and from looking at others it's very difficult to love your neighbor especially if your neighbor is not your brother he's not your relative he's not somebody who you are interested in you know it's very difficult to do some of these things and so for us to to say that we can actually keep God's law without him is difficult so you see even in keeping God's law we need his grace because at some point somewhere along the line we may falter at some point somewhere along the line we we we we we may trip. So in and of ourselves we cannot keep God's law but if God is within us and if if God is and we align ourselves with God then uh through the power of the Holy Spirit he makes it uh he makes it easy. He says his burden is light his load is easy and his burden is light. His yoke is easy and his burden is light. And so uh it speaks to us uh my brothers and my sisters not to view these two things as separate that there is the law and then there is Christ. Let's not allow modernday uh philosophers and teachers of of the gospel so-called uh uh divorce us from divorce us from seeing Christ and the law uh as one thing. But we can only truly keep the law of God if God is within us. Amen. Amen Ruth. Um thank you so much. Um last year I think last year or last year but one um on the global youth day we had a theme showing up in cities. And when you look at that word showing it's a present continuous tense right uh that means is not something that is is supposed to be done once and be left. It's something that we ought to be doing all the time. I reflected on the fact that on that global youth day they went out just to seek the souls out there that are dying to the streets to the prisons to the hospitals and any other place where God's people are lavishing in pain and when we do that are we doing it only once and then we come back wait for another time that the maybe GC or the church or maybe a certain group is going to stand and say that we're going to do this how can we how I hope it's a challenge unto us that we can be able to stand and plan on our own and just the same way the word is saying showing all the time we should be consistent always in doing these works of God in expressing our love to others in every corner where they are so that we can be able to reflect the true character and perfect will of God even as we wait for his coming. May this be my prayer. May it be your prayer who is watching this today and all the time that you've been with us all through that may we be showing up all the time whenever we're being needed so that we can do the work of God. Amen. And our sister Rees just like a tree naturally produces fruits when it is healthy. A transformed Christian naturally obeys God's law not out of obligation but because grace has changed their hearts. The law guides us, but grace empowers us to obey it joyfully. And just like Ecclesiastes 12 13 says, fear God and keep his commandments for this is the whole duty of man. Amen. Amen. And amen. My dear church member, viewer, wherever you are, we have come to the end of the first quarter of our of our lesson this year. Can you imagine? God has brought us this far. We began with looking at love that is freely and we have come to the end with saying that it is. Love is a fulfillment of the law. My apologies. In essence, what is God saying that as we come to the end, God is a God of love, but he's also a love of a God of justice. So, I pray that when this lesson is over, you will feel that God is closer to you because he has loved us first. He's not even asking you to reach out to him first. God, you're loving back a God who's already loved you. Next quarter, we are starting a new quarter next week with a whole new team. We pray for them that the Lord would go before them. We're looking at illusions, images, and symbols, how to study Bible prophecy by our brother Shaun Bonstra. I pray that you will join us so that you can understand the power of prophecy. This church has been given the gift of prophecy and we need to understand how do we study Bible prophecy that we may be able to teach it to another. Until then, may the Lord God bless you, God bless your families. May he watch between us until we meet again in his own time. For this is our prayer for you and I in Jesus name. I'll ask our brother and son to pray for us as we close. Let's believe and pray. A kinder loving father and master art in heaven, we humbly come before you this blessed day. Thankful Lord for leading us throughout these 13 Sabbaths. Dear Lord, you have systematically through the inspiration that is the lesson and its authorship, try to reveal your justice and your love. How I pray dear Lord in a world in which you have been painted as severe in a world in which you have been painted as aloof to somebody this day they may be able to see a father a loving caring father who leads and guides through his law and ultimately covers us with his grace. Ultimately, our prayer, oh Lord, is that we may be able to see you high and lifted up. And dear Lord, may we in seeing you see love in action. And may this love inspire us equally to love one another. I pray in Jesus name. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[8.1s] Good morning and a happy Sabbath
[9.8s] wherever you're joining us from. Some of
[11.4s] us may be in the evening. Good evening
[13.0s] to you and welcome to New Life SDA
[15.4s] Church. We're glad you chose us as your
[18.1s] church of choice and we hope you had a
[20.5s] great week. We want to thank God for
[22.2s] another week and coming to the end of
[25.8s] this quarter. What an amazing quarter
[28.1s] it's been. a whole 13 lessons later and
[31.8s] we have come to understand that God is a
[33.8s] God of love. He's a God of justice but
[36.6s] he's also a loving loving God and I hope
[39.4s] by now you're feeling and you feel that
[42.0s] you understand God just a little bit
[43.8s] better maybe before you begun. My name
[46.7s] is Masio Dora will be your moderator
[48.6s] this morning and with me I'm joined by
[50.0s] an amazing panel. We've come this far my
[52.6s] dear friends and so we shall introduce
[54.8s] ourselves before we start this lesson.
[56.6s] Shall we start with you Elder?
[59.2s] I greet you all in Jesus name.
[61.0s] Hallelujah. Amen. Thank you so much. I'm
[63.8s] Elder Engine Peroya from this church.
[66.6s] Welcome.
[68.6s] Happy Sabbath. Uh my name is Irene
[71.3s] Jahenda and I'll be part of this uh
[73.4s] panel today. Amen. Happy Sabbath. My
[75.9s] name is Enongo Rafael. It's a pleasure
[77.6s] to be with you this morning. Amen. Happy
[80.4s] Sabbath everyone. It's a pleasure also
[82.3s] to have joined us through the 13th
[84.6s] Sabbath. And now as we end we pray that
[87.8s] may the Holy Spirit lead us all through.
[89.4s] My name is Roto Gandho. Amen. And online
[92.2s] we've got our sister. Happy Sabbath and
[94.6s] praise the Lord. My name is Reuka and
[97.4s] it's always a pleasure to serve. Amen.
[100.6s] And I uh as we always said, Reise, we
[103.2s] thank God for you. You always have to
[104.7s] wake up so early to join us. So thank
[107.4s] you. We want to pray as we begin our
[109.6s] lesson this morning. Shall we pray?
[112.1s] Father in heaven, thank you for an
[114.5s] opportunity to serve you. We're not here
[116.9s] because we are better than anybody else.
[118.6s] We're here because you have chosen to
[121.3s] use us as your vessels. That you may
[123.4s] teach us, that we may be instrumental to
[126.6s] others learning. We pray that God,
[128.9s] you'll speak to us first. May the spirit
[130.6s] of God fill us. May he be our teacher
[133.0s] this morning. And father Lord, may you
[135.3s] use us to the honor and glory of your
[137.0s] name. Speak to us this day. We pray in
[139.4s] Jesus name.
[141.3s] Amen. This morning we're looking at uh
[145.0s] so last week, let's let's talk about
[146.3s] last week. So last week we looked at the
[148.6s] two greatest commandments. What amazing.
[150.7s] And we looked at the commandments of God
[152.3s] that says to love God and to love one
[154.6s] another. So today we're looking at the
[156.6s] end of this lesson. We we began with
[158.6s] love and now we come to the end with
[161.1s] love. And so today we're looking at love
[163.4s] as the fulfillment of the law. And our
[166.3s] memory verse today comes from Romans
[168.1s] chapter 13:8. And the Bible says, "Owe
[171.1s] no man anything except to love one
[173.8s] another. For he who loves another has
[176.6s] fulfilled the law." I wonder if you love
[179.0s] one another because only in the loving
[181.0s] one another do we fulfill the law. And
[183.4s] our lesson writer this this had a very
[185.9s] interesting story when talking about you
[187.5s] know a a a church board a church board
[190.3s] meeting that was dealing with what you
[192.2s] would call a disciplinary action. So, a
[194.0s] problematic church member and one of the
[196.4s] church members uh the church board
[198.2s] members says we cannot use compassion to
[201.4s] make decisions. And the pastor was very
[203.6s] very surprised as I would be because the
[206.0s] pastor wondered how then do we make
[207.9s] decisions to correct members in the
[209.6s] church? If we cannot use compassion,
[211.5s] then what shall we use? Because we
[213.4s] learned as we did in the past quarter
[215.3s] that God is a God of compassion. So, how
[217.6s] is it that the children of God would not
[219.5s] have compassion for one another? And so
[221.9s] we find it that compassion is at the
[225.3s] heart and in the middle of all that is
[227.4s] God. And so certainly when we look at
[231.4s] especially when we're dealing with those
[233.0s] who are ingring there is no way we
[235.0s] cannot deal with them with compassion.
[236.3s] And as someone who deals with young
[237.8s] people I know just how every day you
[241.1s] have to deal with compassion with the
[242.6s] young people and mistakes that we all
[244.2s] make but sometimes we forget because
[245.8s] we're older. And so sometimes we forget
[248.1s] that we were there. And so as children
[250.3s] of God, how is it that we would choose
[252.9s] to use a law or rules but forget that
[256.1s] they must be guided and bound in the
[258.9s] boundaries of love and compassion. So
[261.8s] this morning, if love is indeed the
[264.3s] fulfillment of the law as as we are told
[266.4s] today, then we should be careful not to
[268.4s] think of the law as the way to separate
[271.0s] that we can separate the law from love.
[273.1s] In essence, think of love as the
[276.2s] fulfillment of the law. That is why
[278.2s] Jesus had to go to the cross. Jesus went
[280.4s] to the cross because he had to fulfill
[282.7s] the requirements of the law and his
[285.0s] death was a death of love in response to
[288.1s] his airing children. He went to the
[290.3s] cross. The law demanded justice and
[293.9s] Jesus went to the cross to fulfill that
[296.2s] law so that love because he his death
[300.2s] was a death of love. So today we look at
[302.3s] God's law not as a set of abstract
[304.9s] principles but commands but commands and
[308.2s] instructions intended for flourishing
[311.1s] God's for our flourishing. So God looks
[313.8s] at this as it is meant for our own
[316.2s] growth but not to kill us if you know
[318.6s] what I mean. So God's law in totality as
[321.2s] is an expression of God's love expressed
[324.9s] by himself. So this morning I want us to
[328.2s] look at the law of love and oper I want
[330.3s] to come to you because if we then say
[333.0s] that God's law is not is not just
[335.4s] abstract principles but instead is an
[337.5s] expression of a relationship then what
[340.1s] is this law of love?
[343.4s] Uh thank you so much uh sister Merci and
[346.1s] to all our viewers from whichever part
[348.4s] of the third planet you are watching
[350.4s] from. I want to uh uh like you've said
[354.2s] what is it about this Lord of love and I
[357.1s] want to bring our attention to the
[359.5s] introductory parts of this study which
[361.8s] we have been having. One of our first
[364.9s] lesson was God's love
[367.5s] freely. God loves freely and then there
[370.4s] was covenantal love. In our study we
[373.8s] found step by step that God's love is
[378.3s] relational. It is not just
[381.2s] unidirectional. It is multi- it comes
[384.7s] and he expects us also to reciprocate in
[389.0s] equal magnitude. Though we may not match
[391.6s] his, we cannot. But we found one thing.
[395.0s] God wants to be in a relationship with
[397.9s] us. And we found out that uh God's love
[402.7s] is not just the agape as we have always
[405.3s] thought of. But we found that it is also
[408.0s] filial. It goes it can have a personal
[411.4s] relationship with us. And we found out
[414.4s] that be it is because of this love that
[417.5s] we can please God truly. We found that
[419.9s] we can please him. And we found out
[423.6s] that God's love is just as sister
[427.1s] Marcias put it. Now on the question of
[430.5s] this um uh uh on on our study today that
[435.0s] the law of love we found out that why is
[439.3s] it the law of love? Because it defines
[442.6s] our relationship. It defines our
[445.7s] relationship. Every relationship must
[448.4s] have parameters upon which it operates.
[452.2s] That is why it is not just abstract of
[455.1s] dos and don'ts but it defines
[458.4s] relationship. It is not just a law of
[462.0s] dos and don'ts but it defines our
[465.7s] relationship how we relate with our
[468.9s] creator with our redeemer. And it is not
[472.6s] only limited to that. We find out that
[476.3s] it also extends. Last time we looked at
[479.2s] the two commandments and it is still
[482.5s] reflected here. It goes to our
[486.2s] relationship with one another because
[489.8s] God has always wanted to be in a
[492.2s] relationship with us. That is why for
[495.5s] him to be in a relationship with us, it
[497.9s] has to be defined within some parameters
[500.6s] of what what pleases him. If you want to
[503.9s] please God, what is it that pleases God?
[507.1s] We realize that heaven rejoices when a
[510.9s] sinner comes back to Christ. It makes
[514.8s] heaven happier. So how do we make our
[517.9s] savior and our creator happier? When we
[521.5s] discard the evil ways and come back to
[524.5s] him that ensures it is relational. I
[527.9s] want to us to look at the commandments
[531.0s] the the book of Exodus just at the
[533.9s] introductory part not even reading the
[536.1s] commandments but look beloved when you
[539.0s] read Exodus chapter 20 how it begins and
[543.1s] God spoke all these words saying I am
[546.4s] the Lord your God who brought you out of
[549.9s] the land of Egypt out of the house of
[554.2s] bondage. You see it first of all starts
[557.0s] by God saying that I am the Lord your
[560.9s] God. But one thing is also important
[563.8s] that this law of love existed before
[567.7s] this writing the ten commandments were
[570.0s] written. Even in the garden of Eden the
[573.2s] law already
[574.4s] existed even in heaven. It was already
[577.4s] existing because otherwise why was the
[580.2s] devil chased out? because he had gone
[582.9s] against some principles of relation of
[586.1s] relationship. In the garden of Eden,
[589.1s] Adam and Eve were told not to eat. That
[592.2s] was already for them to maintain their
[594.6s] relationship with the creator. There
[596.9s] were parameters upon which they were to
[600.0s] operate. You remember they were to pick
[603.3s] manner but they were told to pick for
[606.2s] six days but they could not pick on the
[608.7s] seventh day. The law of relationship was
[612.7s] already existing. It was only expressed
[616.0s] in writing after they had come out of
[619.5s] Egypt. That one shows us that truly is
[623.7s] the law is the law of love which reveals
[627.3s] the intentions of God, his desires for
[630.2s] us to make us prosper, to make us live
[633.4s] happily and with him and with one
[636.2s] another. Thank you so much. Amen. And so
[639.9s] in that sense we look at the entirety of
[642.2s] God's love is God's law is grounded in
[645.6s] his love. I want to come to you Reise
[648.0s] because then it's very easy then to ask
[650.6s] yourself then how can you then express
[652.4s] this law of love for God and for others
[655.4s] if you're breaking one of the
[656.6s] commandments. Now we've looked at the
[657.8s] ten commandments. Is it possible for you
[659.6s] then to express this love if you're
[661.0s] breaking one of them?
[663.8s] No. It is impossible to say that you
[667.6s] love God and you love your neighbor and
[669.3s] you're not keeping the commandments.
[671.3s] Just like the same way with the traffic
[673.5s] lights rules or the traffic laws, when
[676.3s] you miss one and something goes wrong,
[678.1s] it is fatal. It's a matter of life and
[679.9s] death. And you cannot just tell the
[682.1s] police or whoever is in charge of law
[684.7s] administration that I just broke one, I
[687.0s] just skipped the light. No, the
[688.8s] consequences are fatal. And so you
[690.6s] cannot risk with that. And we see that
[693.2s] every commandment whether that of
[695.0s] worshiping God or treating others is
[697.3s] based on love. If we love God fully, we
[699.9s] will worship him and and him alone and
[703.0s] also keep his commandments. And if we
[705.2s] love others genuinely, then we will not
[707.7s] lie them and do all those things. And
[710.5s] you see also the Lord remind us that if
[713.1s] you love me, keep my commandments. That
[715.7s] is John 14:15. So there is no way we can
[719.0s] escape keeping any of the commandments.
[721.7s] and also claim to love God in our
[723.6s] neighbors. Because as Operia has read
[725.8s] also in the book of Exodus 20, when you
[729.7s] read now the commandments, you'll find
[731.8s] that the first four relate to God and
[735.0s] the other six relates to our
[737.0s] relationship with each other. And so if
[740.3s] we break one, you've broken all. It is
[743.2s] that simple. Amen. Wow. Thank you,
[746.2s] Reese. I want to come to you on song to
[748.2s] look at the law that is holy and
[750.2s] righteous and good. And we're told that
[752.1s] the reason um one of the reason why
[754.1s] Jesus came, he did not come to do away
[755.9s] with the law but to fulfill it. So talk
[758.1s] to us about why the law is holy and
[760.7s] righteous. Indeed. Um I would like to
[763.7s] build on what Elder Opere has already uh
[766.6s] laid out for us. Even that in heaven
[769.3s] when Lucifer or Satan as he's now known
[772.0s] was thrown out, it was because it was a
[773.9s] violation of God's law. And so this same
[776.7s] law is the same is is what required
[780.2s] Christ to die. This law said that where
[783.1s] there is sin or transgression then blood
[785.2s] must be shed because the penalty of sin
[787.4s] is what is death. And so we see even
[790.1s] Christ himself coming and and and and
[792.6s] observing this same law and and trying
[795.0s] to demonstrate that the law is love and
[798.0s] that and that and that this law is so
[800.2s] loving that it it and and so truthful
[802.4s] and so just that uh and so righteous and
[805.2s] holy that even if it involved him dying,
[809.5s] he was willing to do it so that he might
[811.4s] fulfill the law, so that love may be
[813.8s] fulfilled. And so uh we're speaking in
[817.3s] an in a time and in an age in which we
[820.0s] live uh with the reality of messages
[823.1s] that tell us that the law is not
[824.6s] important and reality of messages that
[826.8s] tell us that we're living in the
[827.8s] dispensation of grace and many a time
[830.2s] many use the writings of Paul and so
[832.6s] today we're going to consider from the
[834.7s] book of Romans chapter 6 verse 1-3 what
[837.8s] exactly does Paul say is the
[839.8s] relationship between the law and grace
[842.6s] should we then do away with the law
[844.3s] because we have been saved by grace. You
[846.6s] know, did Christ come and like Moses
[849.5s] perhaps uh having died on the cross, did
[852.4s] he smash the ten commandments like Moses
[855.0s] when he came down? But the Bible tells
[857.3s] us a different story reading from the
[859.0s] book of Romans 6:1-3. And it says, "What
[862.9s] shall we say then? Shall we continue in
[865.9s] sin that grace may abound?" Shall we say
[868.9s] that we've been saved by grace?
[870.3s] Therefore, we can sin the way we want.
[872.1s] You know we have had wonderful uh
[874.6s] wonderful um fairy tales I would call
[877.4s] them of what grace can do for you. you
[879.8s] know that as long as you've you have
[882.4s] accepted Christ you can do anything and
[884.5s] when he comes he will he will pick you
[886.6s] and he will go you know we are saved the
[888.9s] way we are you know even in whatever
[891.1s] lifestyles even if the lifestyles that
[892.5s] we have approached the lifestyles that
[894.1s] we are living are against the Bible we
[896.6s] we believe uh that God's love and God's
[899.6s] grace can cover um for us outside of the
[904.2s] law and so Paul is writing and is asking
[908.0s] shall we continue to sin
[909.8s] that grace may abound. In what sense? In
[913.2s] in chapter 5 and verse verse 20, it
[916.9s] tells us the importance of the law. It
[919.4s] says, "Moreover, the law entered that
[921.7s] the offense might abound. But where sin
[924.1s] abounded, grace did much more abound."
[926.4s] That the law also tells us, it has a
[928.7s] function, you know, like a loving parent
[931.2s] correcting a child lovingly, telling
[933.9s] them, "This is not the way you wear
[935.6s] shoes. You know, this is not the way you
[937.6s] do X, Y, or Z. this is not the way you
[939.4s] address people in society. That's the
[941.1s] function of the law. But it does that in
[943.0s] love. But where an offense has been
[945.9s] done, grace indeed does come and abound,
[949.0s] which is that unmmerited favor that that
[951.7s] uh and grace is actually um salvation in
[955.6s] essence. It's a tool through which we
[956.9s] receive salvation. In Galatians 2 and:8
[959.4s] we're told, no rather in Ephesians 2:8
[962.3s] it says we have been saved by grace
[964.6s] through faith you know and so grace
[967.3s] offers opens to us salvation and so
[970.1s] grace did much abound where there was
[972.0s] sin. And it continues and says in verse
[973.7s] 21 that as sin hath reigned unto death
[976.8s] even so might grace reign through
[978.9s] righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus
[982.2s] Christ our Lord. So we see many people
[985.8s] think that grace now does away with the
[988.4s] law. But now Paul is saying we cannot
[991.6s] continue to sin so that grace may
[993.6s] abound. It says in verse two, God
[995.8s] forbid, how shall we that are dead to
[999.1s] sin live any longer therein? It says it
[1003.5s] simply tells us that if truly we have
[1005.7s] received the grace of God which is the
[1008.2s] gift of salvation through faith in
[1010.3s] Christ then we like Christ have died to
[1013.2s] sin. We like Christ have died to sin and
[1016.1s] therefore we in essence to a certain
[1018.8s] extent um cannot live any longer in sin.
[1023.4s] And then he says in verse three, "Know
[1024.9s] ye not that so many of us as were
[1028.0s] baptized unto Christ Jesus were baptized
[1030.8s] unto his death." As Christ came and
[1033.6s] died, as Marcia has has read to us from
[1036.3s] Romans 3:2 and 26, that he could be both
[1039.4s] the just and the justifier of those who
[1041.5s] believe. We likewise, if we truly
[1044.2s] believe in him, then have also died,
[1046.6s] taken part together with him, dying to
[1049.5s] sin. Now the second verse that we are
[1052.0s] called to consider the second text uh uh
[1054.2s] series of text comes from Romans chapter
[1055.8s] 7 7-12 and and Paul himself writes and
[1059.5s] says what shall we say
[1061.8s] then is the law sin you know is the law
[1065.8s] synonymous with sin you know uh is is
[1069.4s] that person who tells you what error is
[1071.2s] synonymous with with error the answer is
[1073.6s] obviously no the law is simply that
[1075.8s] which lights the the room for us to see
[1079.3s] even as We are seen for us to know what
[1081.6s] is going on to see the architecture of
[1083.4s] our lives. And he continues and says,
[1085.4s] "God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin
[1088.9s] but by the law. For I had not known lust
[1091.4s] except the law had said, thou shalt not
[1094.2s] coveret." You know, the law is like a
[1096.4s] teacher. It simply explains to us our
[1099.0s] world and how we are to interact with it
[1100.4s] in order for us to be saved. It it it
[1103.2s] enables it enables us to know where we
[1105.4s] are deficient and where we have need for
[1108.0s] for the grace of God. and his
[1109.8s] righteousness. And it continues and
[1111.6s] says, "But sin taking occasion by the
[1114.8s] commandment wrought in me all manner of
[1117.8s] concupisence, for without the law, sin
[1121.0s] was dead." Indeed, sin does not exist if
[1123.5s] there is no law. As we said, uh Lucifer
[1127.0s] would not have been chased from heaven
[1129.1s] if he had not violated a statute or a
[1132.1s] law of God. And as we've seen that the
[1134.2s] law of God is summarized in love. That
[1136.6s] the law of God is his character. When
[1139.2s] you look at the laws of a nation and we
[1141.1s] say this is this is a lawless nation, it
[1143.6s] means that perhaps in in its laws there
[1146.5s] are no there are no rules and
[1148.0s] regulations governing how men and women
[1150.1s] are supposed to engage in a free and
[1152.0s] fair manner in where in a in a in a
[1154.2s] manner in which those who are are weak
[1156.5s] in society are protected and those who
[1158.8s] are strong are regulated in terms of
[1161.4s] their power and of their influence. And
[1163.4s] so the Bible continues and says in verse
[1166.1s] 9, "For I was alive without the law
[1168.1s] once, but when the commandment came, sin
[1170.6s] revived, and I died, and the commandment
[1173.4s] which was ordained to life, I found to
[1175.7s] be unto death." And he continues and
[1178.5s] says, "For sin, taking occasion by the
[1181.3s] commandment deceived me, and by it did
[1183.5s] what? It slew me." In verse 12, he says,
[1185.8s] "Wherefore the law is holy, and the
[1188.5s] commandment holy and just and good." You
[1191.8s] see, he's saying even if it tells us
[1194.7s] where we are wrong, even if it exposes
[1197.0s] our error, it exposes our nakedness,
[1199.7s] that it is important for the emperor to
[1201.7s] know that he is naked. You know, for us
[1204.2s] to be able to know that we need to put
[1206.2s] on clothes, we need to know the the law
[1209.0s] is like is like when you go to the
[1210.8s] doctor and you get a right diagnosis,
[1213.4s] therefore, you can get the proper cure.
[1215.8s] But without the law then we suffer and
[1218.2s] we are sick and we do not know the way
[1220.2s] of salvation. And so the law is holy.
[1223.9s] The law is righteous. The law is good.
[1226.0s] And the law is a description of the
[1228.4s] character of Christ. When we come to our
[1230.8s] day and our age, Christ himself says in
[1233.4s] Matthew 5:18, it says until heaven and
[1237.0s] earth pass away, not even the smallest
[1239.4s] letter or stroke shall pass away from
[1242.2s] the law. He says he himself did not come
[1244.0s] to do away with it but he came to
[1246.3s] fulfill the law. And so Christ is uh the
[1252.2s] law and the law is love and God and his
[1255.5s] law are one. That's why even when Moses
[1257.8s] was given the law and the commandments
[1259.5s] they were written in stone almost
[1261.8s] showing uh their immortal immortal
[1264.6s] nature almost showing uh their
[1266.7s] permanence in the kingdom of God. Thank
[1269.1s] you. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much ongo
[1272.3s] a reminder that the law is the
[1274.4s] representation of God's character. Uh
[1277.4s] something has struck me which has really
[1279.2s] inspired me. Verse 12 says, "Therefore
[1282.0s] the law is holy and the commandment holy
[1285.6s] and just and good." You know the law is
[1288.4s] holy. What makes it holy? Because the
[1291.6s] author is holy. The law is eternal
[1294.9s] because the author is eternal. So the
[1298.1s] law is holy because God is holy and this
[1301.3s] law is a character of God who is holy.
[1305.3s] Thank you. Amen. Amen. Amen. Ruth, you
[1307.7s] want to say something? Yeah, sure. Um
[1309.8s] the concept of um the law that is holy
[1313.6s] um if we pick it that the concept of the
[1316.3s] law as a mirror. Now if you go and stand
[1319.8s] by the mirror and you look yourself at
[1322.6s] it, you will notice uh like that is who
[1326.2s] you are. Assuming there's something that
[1328.7s] is wrong with any assuming maybe for
[1331.1s] example your face has a mark and you
[1333.6s] feel that that mark should not be there.
[1335.7s] What do you do? Do you hit the mirror
[1337.4s] for showing you that this is a mark?
[1339.6s] Definitely not. What you do? You take
[1342.0s] maybe a cloth and wipe what is on your
[1344.9s] face. So ideally the law exposes the sin
[1349.1s] and we are able to notice where we are
[1351.5s] wrong so that we can come out of it. But
[1353.8s] on our own we cannot make it until we
[1355.9s] invite the gift of the Holy Spirit and
[1359.0s] God himself through Christ so that he
[1361.0s] can help us to overcome sin. Thank you.
[1363.6s] Amen. Amen. Thank you so much uh for
[1366.7s] those additions because another thing
[1368.8s] that another controversy that we find in
[1370.8s] the in the I think in the Christian uh
[1372.8s] church world today is when people say
[1375.3s] that we are not in the dispensation of
[1377.6s] the law. So the law is regarded as
[1379.8s] something that happened in the Old
[1381.1s] Testament and we are in the dispensation
[1383.2s] of grace. Does that then mean that the
[1386.1s] law and grace are opposed to one
[1388.5s] another?
[1391.6s] No. The law and grace are not opposed to
[1393.7s] one another. In fact, law and grace are
[1396.5s] not opposites but work together to
[1399.2s] reveal God's plan of salvation. Amen.
[1401.7s] The law shows us our need for grace and
[1405.2s] grace empowers us to keep the law. Amen.
[1408.0s] And you see basically as Ruth and Ongo
[1410.2s] have right rightfully said that the law
[1413.3s] reveals the sin. Grace provides
[1415.7s] forgiveness. Amen. The law acts as a
[1417.9s] mirror. It shows us what is right and
[1419.8s] wrong. Grace cleanses us. When we fail,
[1423.5s] grace offers forgiveness and renewal.
[1426.5s] Then grace does not abolish the law. It
[1429.8s] strengthens it. Jesus kept the law
[1432.6s] perfectly, but also extended grace to
[1435.6s] sinners. Grace does not cancel obedience
[1439.5s] but inspires obedience out of love. Then
[1443.8s] grace transforms us to obey the law from
[1446.9s] the heart.
[1448.6s] And that is legalism is trying to obey
[1451.5s] the law to be saved. But grace is God
[1455.6s] changes our hearts. So we obey out of
[1459.2s] love. And that's why when we continue to
[1462.0s] read the lesson, we find that the
[1464.1s] relationship between law and grace is
[1466.2s] beautifully demonstrated in Jeremiah
[1469.8s] 31 31-34 and also John 3:1-21.
[1475.6s] These passages show that God's law is
[1479.0s] not just about external rules but about
[1482.8s] a heart transformation that comes
[1485.8s] through grace. In Jeremiah
[1488.8s] 31:31-34, the law is written in our
[1491.6s] hearts. And here we see there are two
[1494.0s] covenants. The old covenant, the law on
[1497.6s] stone which ongo as and oper described.
[1501.7s] We see that people are given
[1503.2s] commandments but they struggled to keep
[1505.8s] them. Then we come and find the new
[1508.4s] covenant low on our hearts. And we see
[1511.5s] that God transforms hearts through his
[1514.5s] grace enabling true
[1516.4s] obedience. And we can think of a school
[1519.0s] where there are students following rules
[1521.1s] only because they fear punishment. But
[1524.0s] if the teacher inspires them to love
[1525.8s] learning, they obey from the heart. God
[1529.4s] similarly does not just give laws. It
[1532.4s] changes our hearts such that we want to
[1534.7s] obey. And that's why in Ezekiel 36 26 we
[1539.1s] are told that I will give you a new
[1541.7s] heart and put a new spirit within you. I
[1545.1s] will take the heart of stone out of your
[1547.5s] flesh and give you a heart of flesh. So
[1552.2s] we can see from this that obedience
[1554.5s] should not come from fear but a
[1557.0s] transformed heart. And when we
[1559.2s] experience God's love, following his law
[1562.2s] becomes a joy and not a burden. And as
[1566.2s] we continue in the book of John
[1569.0s] 3:1-21, we see that grace brings
[1571.6s] spiritual rebirth as demonstrated in the
[1574.9s] life of
[1576.4s] Nicodemus. Nicodemus knew the law but
[1579.8s] lacked grace. He followed religious
[1582.5s] rules but had no spiritual
[1585.3s] transformation. Then Jesus explained
[1588.2s] that new birth is through the Holy
[1590.6s] Spirit, not just outward obedience but
[1594.0s] inner renewal through grace. And we can
[1597.6s] see that a person can know the Bible, go
[1601.0s] to church and avoid breaking laws yet
[1604.6s] lack a personal relationship with Jesus.
[1607.6s] Just like Nicodemus, they need to be
[1610.5s] born again to experience grace that
[1613.5s] makes obedience natural, not forced. And
[1616.6s] that's why John 3:16 reminds us, for God
[1620.2s] so loved the world that he gave his only
[1622.9s] begotten son that whosoever believes in
[1625.8s] him should not perish, but have a life.
[1630.4s] So we are not saved by keeping the law
[1633.0s] but once we are saved we desire to keep
[1636.5s] it. Grace gives us new life. We obey God
[1640.7s] not to be saved but because we are
[1643.5s] already saved. Amen. Oh amen Reese. Amen
[1648.9s] indeed. Ah that is just that reminder
[1652.1s] that yes we cannot save ourselves by
[1653.9s] keeping the law. And ongo let me just
[1655.5s] ask you in terms of what is your hope
[1657.6s] then in judgment? you know, is it
[1659.6s] because you're a diligent and faithful
[1661.5s] lawkeeper or is it because of the
[1663.4s] righteousness of Jesus Christ that
[1665.0s] covers you? Because that then helps us
[1667.8s] understand the function of God's law in
[1670.5s] terms of what it can or cannot do.
[1672.8s] Indeed, I think
[1674.8s] u everybody who will stand righteous at
[1678.2s] the judgment will be because of Christ's
[1680.3s] righteousness. You see, I think in
[1682.8s] Christ we find both
[1685.2s] uh the law and grace. It's like in the
[1689.4s] you go into the into the into the
[1691.0s] sanctuary, you know, in the most holy
[1693.3s] place, we find the ark of the covenant.
[1695.4s] Inside the ark of the covenant is the
[1697.0s] law of God. But where God sits in in
[1699.9s] this ark of the covenant, where his seat
[1701.3s] is, it's called the mercy seat. You see,
[1703.3s] it's a balance between law and grace.
[1705.4s] And so, we are saved by grace, but also
[1709.0s] the law is equally important. And so
[1711.4s] it's not lawkeeping or legalism as we
[1714.5s] call it that saves us, but it is rather
[1717.4s] a relationship with Christ Jesus that
[1719.6s] has a combination of both the law and
[1721.4s] the grace of God. Amen. That brings me
[1725.0s] to a question for you, Perry, because um
[1727.6s] in this many many a times as a church
[1729.8s] we've been accused of being legalistic,
[1731.8s] you know, so the people say that we keep
[1733.6s] the Sabbath, we we're basically just
[1736.3s] lawkeepers. Is that the case? You know,
[1739.2s] because talk to somebody who's only
[1740.9s] heard of about Adventists and the only
[1743.2s] thing they know about us is that we are
[1744.7s] lawkeepers. We keep talking about the
[1746.2s] commandments of God and especially the
[1747.8s] fourth commandments. What would you tell
[1749.7s] somebody like that? Uh I think um that
[1753.0s] is um a misconception and a
[1756.0s] misunderstanding. But the true position
[1758.1s] as madame my sister Renu has put it that
[1762.0s] grace gives the way to salvation. It
[1764.6s] does not cancel obedience but inspires
[1768.2s] it. I think that one came out very well
[1770.8s] that grace does not cancel obedience but
[1775.0s] it inspires us to obey because he say
[1778.6s] the Bible says if you love me you will
[1781.2s] keep my commands. Let me ask you my
[1783.6s] brother and sister who is watching how
[1786.2s] would you say if you loved God would you
[1789.8s] continue worshiping other idols? The
[1793.6s] answer is no. Would you say you love God
[1797.0s] and then you misuse his name? No. Would
[1800.5s] you say you love your neighbor while you
[1803.3s] are coveret his wife? Would you say so?
[1806.1s] Or would you say you love your father
[1808.5s] and mother while you disobey them? Would
[1811.6s] you say you love your neighbor while you
[1813.5s] steal his property? It is not possible.
[1817.0s] So you find out that when we love God as
[1821.0s] it was said that um when because we have
[1824.0s] been saved now we obey the laws because
[1828.1s] we have been saved. We are not keeping
[1831.0s] the laws in order to be saved. But this
[1834.8s] one obedience is now a reflection a
[1839.3s] response of the salvation we've gotten
[1842.6s] in Christ. Just like the positive
[1845.0s] response of plants to light is photo
[1849.5s] tropism. Um and the obedient response
[1853.8s] positive response of plants to soil or
[1856.9s] touch is tigotropism. Our positive
[1860.8s] response to God's love is obedience and
[1865.6s] that is what is called grace. So the
[1868.2s] commandments of God, the will of God are
[1871.0s] 10. And he has said it is expressed even
[1874.9s] before the commandments were written he
[1877.5s] created for six days but on the seventh
[1880.5s] day he rested blessed and made it
[1884.2s] allowed it and he commanded us to do the
[1887.5s] same. So when we keep the commandments
[1891.2s] it is because we love God and it is
[1893.7s] because we've been saved by Christ. So
[1897.2s] it is not about legalism. It is not
[1899.8s] about keeping the commandments
[1901.4s] especially the fourth in order to be
[1904.1s] saved but we do that because already we
[1906.6s] have been saved and do you know what
[1909.0s] even as the world comes to an end the
[1911.5s] biggest battle the devil does not want
[1913.9s] people to know the truth because the
[1916.1s] fourth commandment is where the seal of
[1918.6s] God is it because it gives us the
[1922.0s] express explanation we worship him
[1925.0s] because he's the
[1926.3s] creator and when we miss that then it
[1929.4s] means the door will be open to worship
[1932.2s] anything and that is what the devil does
[1934.6s] not want us because he continues to
[1937.3s] fight and disputes God the sovereignity
[1941.0s] of God as the creator and also the
[1943.6s] redeemer. Thank you so much. Amen. Thank
[1946.8s] you. Thank you Elder Operry. Irene I
[1949.3s] recall a while back some some many
[1951.4s] quarters back we discussed a lesson on
[1954.0s] debt you and I and I remember uh so
[1956.5s] looking at Romans 13:8 the Bible says
[1959.4s] that owe no one anything except to love
[1962.0s] one another so at that time we were
[1964.0s] saying we should owe nothing so we
[1966.0s] should not be debtors but in this case
[1968.4s] today we are being talked about to have
[1970.8s] the debt of love that we owe others to
[1973.9s] love one another and that way we fulfill
[1976.6s] the law so talk to us about the fact
[1978.5s] that go love is the fulfillment of the
[1981.3s] law. Thank you sister Marci.
[1984.4s] Um when we talk about uh love as a
[1988.4s] fulfillment of the law and uh just it
[1992.3s] being stated very clearly in the book of
[1994.6s] Romans chapter 13 8-10 in terms of Paul
[2000.3s] telling us he who loves one another has
[2003.5s] fulfilled the law and us not owing each
[2007.0s] other anything but love uh to one
[2010.1s] another. And through this loving one
[2013.0s] another, we are being put in a position
[2015.7s] of showing so much so much uh to each
[2019.8s] other and fulfilling what God intends of
[2023.4s] us. And we are able to see even um when
[2027.6s] Moses is uh leading the the Israelites
[2031.0s] to the promised land and at the point
[2033.6s] where now God is able to take Moses and
[2038.6s] give him the the commandments and we've
[2041.0s] just been able to see through the
[2042.6s] discussion that um God is the author of
[2046.1s] the commandments and God being a God of
[2049.8s] love, God being a God of justice, we are
[2053.4s] able to see that through his
[2055.0s] commandments there is a lot of love that
[2057.4s] is spoken uh through that there is a lot
[2060.2s] of justice that is also coming out
[2062.6s] loudly through his commandments and in a
[2066.5s] summary the the Paul is able to describe
[2069.9s] to us that we have the the the summary
[2073.8s] of the commandments after loving God we
[2076.6s] have do not steal do not kill do not
[2079.6s] commit adultery and all these are ways
[2082.8s] to to are summing up uh in manners of
[2087.2s] how we should show love um to one
[2090.0s] another and through this uh uh keeping
[2095.0s] of these particular commandments we are
[2097.2s] being told that this is the ultimate
[2099.4s] fulfillment of the law. Um we are now
[2103.3s] coming to the book of uh Galatians
[2106.9s] 5:4 and here Paul is explaining all the
[2110.8s] law is fulfilled in one word. You shall
[2114.1s] love your neighbor just as you love
[2116.2s] yourself. But the big question is uh
[2119.2s] what kind of love is that which fulfills
[2121.8s] the law? And we are going to come down
[2124.3s] to just see uh what are some of these
[2126.9s] actions that we are actually being
[2128.6s] directed to that will show that we are
[2131.9s] actually loving each other. So in the
[2135.1s] book of Matthew chapter 23 I'll uh us
[2139.4s] just to go to Matthew chapter
[2143.5s] 23 23 and
[2146.7s] 24 and I will read it out to us. Woe to
[2151.4s] you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites,
[2154.8s] for you pay tithe of mint and anise and
[2158.5s] cumin and have neglected the weightier
[2161.4s] matters of the law that is justice,
[2164.2s] mercy and faith. Those you ought to have
[2167.0s] done without leaving the others undone.
[2169.7s] And I believe even in the previous
[2171.8s] lesson we were able to just dive in in
[2174.2s] terms of what are the weightier matters
[2176.2s] of the law and what what is um uh Jesus
[2180.4s] saying out to the Pharisees in terms of
[2183.4s] what counts and uh what is deemed uh
[2186.8s] very heavy when it comes to kingdom
[2189.2s] matters because for the Pharisees they
[2191.4s] were paying tithe um of mint and anise
[2194.6s] and cumin and they were seeing that this
[2196.5s] this is what uh pleases the Lord. But
[2199.4s] Jesus is here to just tell us we should
[2202.0s] not neglect the weightier matters,
[2204.5s] matters of justice, masters of uh
[2207.4s] showing mercy, matters of faith um in
[2211.1s] our lives. Uh these are what um actually
[2214.1s] counts when we talk of uh the weightier
[2216.6s] matters of the law. And when we go to
[2218.8s] the book of Deuteronomy chapter 5
[2224.8s] 12, we are able to see in terms of the
[2228.1s] commandments of the Lord, in terms of uh
[2231.3s] the laws of the Lord, we were able to
[2234.6s] see that through the creation story and
[2238.5s] how God created us, how God created the
[2241.7s] universe and everything that is in it.
[2244.9s] and he was able to dedicate six days to
[2249.0s] to the work and he was able to set aside
[2252.1s] a specific day for rest and this day is
[2255.4s] the Sabbath day whereby God's command uh
[2258.9s] to us is that we keep it holy. We
[2262.2s] delight in it and Deuteronomy 5:12
[2266.2s] actually just uh is able to echo that
[2269.0s] and bring bring it out to us in a very
[2272.1s] loud way. And it says, "Observe the
[2274.6s] Sabbath day to keep it holy as the Lord
[2277.5s] your God commanded you. Six days you
[2280.4s] shall labor and do all your work. But on
[2283.2s] the seventh day is the Sabbath of the
[2285.8s] Lord your God. In it you shall you shall
[2288.9s] do no work. uh nor your son, nor your
[2291.9s] daughter, nor your male servant, nor
[2294.5s] your female servant, nor your ox, nor
[2297.0s] your donkey, nor any of your cattle,
[2299.1s] stranger who's within your gates, that
[2301.2s] your male servant, your female servant
[2303.3s] may rest as well as you. And you seeing
[2306.4s] that within
[2308.4s] this God is actually instructing us that
[2312.6s] this day is a day of delight. And this
[2316.2s] day is a day of keeping it holy and
[2319.1s] reflecting on the good works of the
[2321.0s] Lord. and even the day being intertwined
[2325.1s] in terms of when God brought the
[2328.4s] Israelites um from Egypt and out of the
[2332.3s] slavery and out of the bondage. He tells
[2335.7s] us even during this day, it's a
[2337.4s] reflection of his justice uh to his
[2341.0s] people, the Israelites. It's a
[2343.4s] reflection of his goodness to us and
[2346.4s] what he's even uh given to us in terms
[2350.2s] of his love and justice uh for good. And
[2353.8s] just to look at how are we able to show
[2357.4s] delights uh for the Sabbath? How are we
[2360.2s] able to to to recognize it and keep it
[2363.9s] holy? And it says in the book of Isaiah
[2367.8s] chapter 58:E3
[2369.9s] uh uh and 14, the emphasis
[2373.7s] uh is on the works of love and justice
[2376.1s] for others in terms of feeding the
[2378.4s] hungry, housing the homeless, um
[2382.1s] clothing the naked, visiting the sick.
[2384.6s] And these are some of the ways we are
[2386.5s] able to show delight, observe the
[2388.7s] Sabbath, and keep it holy. And as I
[2392.0s] finish it, um it says that for sure that
[2396.3s] love is a fulfillment of the law. And I
[2398.9s] was when I was just uh reading through
[2401.0s] this, I was able to just reflect on the
[2403.8s] fact that even in our households, we
[2406.2s] have rules and some can be uh rightly
[2409.8s] outspoken and some can be uh silent
[2412.4s] rules. But within these rules they set
[2415.6s] um the boundaries in terms of what can
[2417.8s] be done, what cannot be done, how are we
[2420.5s] showing love, how are we uh relating in
[2423.4s] this uh uh in this uh family setup, how
[2427.1s] are we doing things so that we do not
[2429.0s] cross some boundaries, we do not step on
[2431.4s] some toes and we remain
[2434.3s] um in good relation with each other.
[2437.8s] And through this we are we are
[2442.1s] encouraged to be actively involved in
[2446.3s] matters and actions of doing good. And
[2449.1s] we've just been able to see that for us
[2451.5s] to be able to show love, to show
[2453.7s] justice, grace, and faith in in what
[2456.6s] we're doing is through being uh in
[2459.8s] action in terms of giving food to the
[2462.5s] hungry, in terms of sheltering the
[2464.8s] homeless, income in terms of um clothing
[2467.7s] those who are naked, visiting the sick,
[2470.5s] visiting those who are in prison. These
[2473.4s] are some of the things that we are
[2475.2s] encouraged to do. Not to be there
[2477.5s] passively and uh talking about love but
[2481.5s] uh being there actively in our actions
[2485.3s] uh to show love to each other and with
[2488.2s] that we are basically fulfilling the law
[2492.0s] of God. Thank you. Thank you Irene. uh
[2496.1s] just that understanding of the fact that
[2498.0s] sometimes we look at the law as just
[2500.2s] thou shalt not but today we're being
[2503.1s] told God is reminding us this is also
[2505.1s] the active part of it which is that sin
[2507.8s] is in two ways the sin of commission
[2509.5s] what that which you do or do not do but
[2511.8s] also the sin of omission and that which
[2513.8s] sometimes we ignore which is have you
[2516.3s] helped the the poor among uh in your
[2519.0s] neighborhood in this church are there
[2520.7s] poor people who you nobody even knows
[2523.0s] that they are poor because nobody has
[2524.4s] gone and reached out to them. Is there
[2526.5s] someone suffering around you including
[2528.1s] your own family members and we have not
[2530.2s] done anything about it? The Lord is
[2531.7s] saying that the fulfillment of the law
[2533.7s] is that no man nothing but to love them
[2536.5s] and in love is a love is an action word.
[2539.0s] We tell children that love is a doing
[2541.8s] word which is you cannot say you love by
[2544.7s] just claiming. Love must be seen in
[2547.8s] action. And I pray that the Lord would
[2549.9s] open up our eyes to see what love truly
[2552.2s] is. Ruth, above all others, love one
[2556.2s] another. That's the one commandment that
[2558.0s] God has called us to say, love one
[2560.8s] another. What does that mean for you?
[2563.1s] Um, thank you so much.
[2565.6s] Um, love one another. Uh, indeed the
[2569.4s] whole of the Bible and since we started
[2571.8s] this quarter, it has been about love and
[2574.6s] the expression of the whole scriptures
[2576.6s] is about love. The Bible is a love
[2579.2s] letter expressed from God himself unto
[2582.2s] us. so that we can reciprocate in the
[2584.5s] same manner. Just as my sister said that
[2586.8s] love is a doing word. It's a verb. So we
[2591.0s] ought to also act in it. If love is the
[2594.1s] fulfillment of the law, then one cannot
[2597.2s] keep God's law in the full sense simply
[2599.8s] by refraining from doing wrong things.
[2602.8s] The law of love itself not only commands
[2606.2s] us to refrain from doing evil, but the
[2608.9s] law prompts us to do acts that reveal
[2612.4s] the love of God to others. So the way
[2615.4s] that we can reveal is by being in action
[2619.1s] to one another. My sister Irene has
[2621.7s] really reflected on the same and I want
[2623.9s] to quote from the book of Matthew chap
[2626.4s] 25 31-46 when God will be separating the
[2630.7s] sheep and the gods and he keeps on
[2632.6s] telling them until you do to the least
[2635.3s] of these the least of these in our
[2637.6s] society they are everywhere and
[2639.9s] sometimes someone gets money and says
[2641.8s] that I cannot be able to support each
[2643.5s] and every person because the man I have
[2645.8s] is entitled to me but God has given us
[2649.4s] as words and he has called us so that we
[2652.4s] can be partakers of him uh with him in
[2655.4s] making sure that all humanity is being
[2657.1s] served. Now I want us to consider the
[2659.4s] book of James 2:es 1-9. And as we do
[2662.6s] that I want us to put in mind that every
[2665.3s] person responds positive to compassion
[2669.3s] including animals. Some of us who will
[2671.6s] have pets like cats and dogs, anytime
[2673.8s] you show compassion unto an animal, they
[2676.6s] will entirely be royal unto you. Now,
[2680.4s] uh, chapter 2:es 1 to 11, I want to read
[2683.6s] just a couple of verses. The Bible says,
[2685.3s] "My brethren, have not the faith of our
[2687.5s] Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory,
[2690.5s] with respect of persons. For if there
[2692.7s] come unto your assembly a man with a
[2694.6s] gold ring in godly apparel, and there
[2697.5s] come in also a poor man in vile Raymon,
[2701.8s] and you have respect to him that we the
[2704.2s] gay clothing, and say unto him, sit here
[2706.8s] in a good place, and say to the poorest,
[2708.8s] stand thou there, or sit under my
[2711.9s] foottool. Are you not then partial in
[2715.4s] yourself and are be and become judges of
[2718.2s] evil thoughts? How can my beloved
[2720.3s] brethren? Hath not God chosen the poor
[2722.7s] of this world to be rich in faith and
[2725.3s] hes of the kingdom which he hath
[2727.0s] promised to them that love him? But you
[2729.6s] have despised the poor. Do not rich men
[2732.6s] oppress you and draw uh before judgments
[2735.5s] and seats. And I want just to jump to
[2737.2s] verses 10 that says, "For whosoever keep
[2739.8s] the whole law and yet offend in one
[2742.4s] point, he is guilty of all. For he that
[2744.7s] said, do not commit adultery also said
[2747.1s] do not kill. Now if thou commit no
[2749.8s] adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art
[2752.5s] become a transgressor of the law. So
[2754.6s] it's just an emphasis that we should not
[2757.0s] have that veil that we can be able to
[2759.8s] separate people and segregate them
[2761.8s] according to who they are, but rather
[2764.7s] let's have the eyes of Christ. How does
[2766.8s] Christ look at us from a point of love?
[2770.2s] We might someone might be low at some
[2772.2s] certain point but that one does not
[2774.6s] define who is going to be forever.
[2778.0s] Remember that times change everything
[2780.5s] whatever might be having today tomorrow
[2782.6s] might not be there. What is your stand
[2785.4s] even when you are in abound and when you
[2787.8s] don't have? God reminds us that at all
[2790.6s] times we should express love. And how
[2793.1s] can we express this true love as written
[2795.3s] in the book of 1 Corinthians chapter
[2797.6s] 13 4 5 and 6 that says and although I
[2801.5s] bestow all goods to feed the poor and
[2803.8s] though I give my body to be burnt and
[2806.5s] have not charity which can be translated
[2809.0s] as love it profited me nothing. So love
[2812.2s] severeth long and is kind. Love enviate
[2816.0s] north. Love vaunteth not itself and is
[2819.0s] not puffed up. Love does not behave
[2821.5s] itself and seemingly seeking not her
[2824.5s] own. It is not easily provoked,
[2826.6s] thinkketh no evil, rejoices not in
[2828.7s] iniquity, but rejoices in the truth. So
[2831.0s] all these things when we bear them, then
[2834.1s] we are expressing the true love unto our
[2836.8s] God. And now as we express this true
[2839.9s] love unto our our loved one, let us
[2842.9s] remember I want to quote from the book
[2844.4s] of Ellen White that says love to a man
[2847.4s] is the earth manifestation of the love
[2850.4s] of God. Um it was so implant it was so
[2854.6s] implant with this love to make us
[2856.6s] children of one family that the king of
[2858.6s] glory becomes one with us. And when his
[2862.1s] parting words are fulfilled, love one
[2864.5s] another as I have loved you. When we
[2867.2s] have when we love the world as he has
[2869.6s] loved it, then for us his mission is
[2872.4s] accomplished. We are fitted for heaven
[2875.0s] for we have heaven in our hearts.
[2877.5s] Anytime that you express this love unto
[2879.8s] others, then that ultimately shows that
[2882.2s] we have heaven in our hearts. And many
[2884.9s] people out there can be able to
[2886.5s] reciprocate. Just the same way you smile
[2888.5s] at someone, it is a contagious thing,
[2891.5s] they will definitely smile back at you.
[2893.8s] And whenever we do good works unto our
[2897.2s] brethren, they will also reciprocate by
[2899.9s] doing the same unto other people.
[2901.4s] Because the love that they have received
[2903.3s] in their hearts cannot keep them calm.
[2905.8s] It will make them be a bit uncomfortable
[2908.2s] until they have expressed it forward to
[2910.2s] another person. And Jesus commands us
[2912.7s] his followers to love one another even
[2914.8s] as he has loved us. Let us maintain that
[2917.2s] love. And when we do it, we do it
[2918.8s] wholeheartedly, not with veils of where
[2921.4s] we can feel like I'm doing it for the
[2923.3s] sake of what I'm going to get. Sometimes
[2926.2s] uh maybe in church you can contribute to
[2928.7s] someone just because you know that is
[2930.2s] going to contribute to to you next time.
[2932.4s] But when we do it out of love, knowing
[2934.7s] that it is part of my compassion that I
[2937.8s] ought to express to someone else, then
[2939.7s] when we do that, we do it regardless of
[2942.8s] who of who you are choosing to
[2945.2s] contribute to. Now sometimes people have
[2947.7s] said that they go to visitations of
[2949.4s] homes where they feel maybe the homes
[2952.3s] are convenient with them. They they
[2954.2s] maybe uh transport and everything else
[2957.6s] but they will not choose to go to
[2959.3s] people's houses where they feel that
[2961.2s] there's a bit uncomfortable or this
[2962.8s] someone cannot offer to s certain
[2965.0s] standards but we're being called to
[2967.0s] express love wholeheartedly without any
[2970.2s] favor but make sure that everyone
[2973.0s] receives as God could have wished us to
[2975.1s] receive it. Thank you. Amen, Ruth. That
[2978.2s] is so challenging. And I'd like to
[2979.8s] challenge my panelist this morning in
[2982.1s] asking ourselves, we are in a church
[2984.0s] where I've been listening to a pastor
[2985.5s] this week who's been covering the week
[2987.4s] of prayer for the young people. And one
[2989.6s] of the question he was asking is that
[2991.1s] how is it that we can be in a church
[2993.6s] where we do not talk to one another that
[2995.8s] there are people who go to foot washing
[2997.7s] and cannot wash each other's feet
[2999.3s] because we hate each other in the house
[3000.8s] of God. How is that even a Christian
[3003.1s] church, beloved? So if there's one of us
[3005.5s] sitting here or listening to us today
[3007.7s] this morning and you have somebody in
[3010.3s] the church of God who whose home you
[3012.1s] cannot go to or who you do not think is
[3015.3s] worth of your time or there's someone
[3017.8s] you actually hate enough that you cannot
[3019.9s] go into their house or do not talk to
[3022.0s] then we do need a transformation. We do
[3025.0s] need this lifechanging love of God to
[3027.4s] change us first because we cannot say we
[3030.2s] love God. We cannot see and we cannot
[3032.6s] love my brother who I live with on a
[3034.7s] day-to-day basis. So may the Lord
[3036.0s] challenge us. And today we've been told
[3038.2s] above all love one another. Do you love
[3041.2s] one another? Do you love your husband?
[3043.0s] Do you love your wife? Do you love your
[3044.5s] children? Because sometimes the home
[3046.2s] setting is the one place that is so
[3047.7s] difficult sometimes to live with one
[3049.1s] another in peace. Interestingly,
[3051.6s] children of God, do you love one
[3053.4s] another? Your closing remarks, my dear
[3055.4s] panelists, as you think through that
[3058.2s] this morning, beloved of God, the quote
[3061.7s] from the book uh Desire of Ages from our
[3064.5s] sister Ellen Wer talks about those who
[3067.3s] minister to others will be ministered
[3069.4s] unto by the chief shepherd. They
[3072.6s] themselves will drink of living water
[3074.5s] and will be satisfied. They will not be
[3077.8s] longing for exciting amusement or some
[3080.3s] changes in their lives. The great topic
[3083.0s] of interest will be how to save the
[3085.4s] souls that h are ready to perish. Social
[3089.0s] intercourse will be profitable. The love
[3092.4s] of the redeemer will draw hearts
[3095.2s] together in unity. So when we realize
[3098.1s] that we are workers together with God,
[3100.2s] his promises will not be spoken with
[3102.9s] indifference.
[3104.4s] They will burn in our hearts and kindle
[3107.3s] upon our lips. To Moses who who when
[3110.3s] called to minister to an ignorant indic
[3113.3s] in disciplined and rebellious people,
[3115.0s] God gave the promise that my presence
[3117.4s] shall go with thee and I will give thee
[3120.0s] rest. And he said certainly I will be
[3123.0s] with you. And that comes from Exodus 33.
[3126.0s] The promise is to all who labor in
[3128.2s] Christstead for his afflicted and
[3130.7s] suffering ones. So the Lord is promising
[3133.7s] us today that if we go to minister to
[3136.6s] others from a desire of love that he has
[3140.6s] promised as he promised Moses, I will be
[3143.3s] with you. My presence will go with you.
[3146.0s] So beloved of God, when the Lord calls
[3148.1s] you to the far lands, if there are
[3150.0s] people languishing in places like Trana
[3152.2s] in this country that are far hard to
[3154.6s] reach, are we willing to go to Trana for
[3157.2s] mission? Are we willing to go to hard
[3159.8s] places? as my sister Ruth has said,
[3162.0s] where you have to live in uncomfortable
[3164.5s] circumstances just so that you can reach
[3166.7s] a soul that is ready to perish because
[3169.0s] that is the calling God has called you
[3171.2s] to and that is the call of love, the
[3175.0s] fulfillment of the law. My brother
[3177.4s] Opere, your closing remarks.
[3180.0s] On that same note, I want to say that um
[3184.2s] it is true, it is an honor God has given
[3186.6s] us that in the same spirit, we can
[3190.5s] extend love to one another, the world or
[3194.1s] the other people who may not have gotten
[3196.1s] the privilege of getting the message. We
[3199.4s] should love the world like Christ loved
[3201.4s] the world. The loving the world here in
[3203.9s] this context is not partaking in the
[3207.5s] worldly things which are sinful against
[3211.1s] God but loving the world that having the
[3214.0s] burden that others who have not gotten
[3216.3s] the good news of salvation may also get
[3220.0s] it. In Ephesians chapter 2 verse 80
[3223.2s] says, "For by grace you have been saved
[3227.0s] through faith and that not of
[3229.4s] yourselves. It is the gift of God, not
[3232.7s] of works, lest anyone should boast. For
[3237.8s] we are his workmanship created in Christ
[3241.4s] Jesus for good works, which God prepared
[3244.8s] beforehand that we should walk in them."
[3248.6s] One thing which gives me joy is that we
[3252.6s] have been elevated to an extent that we
[3254.7s] are co-workers with God. Co-workers to
[3257.4s] do what? To share this good news. And
[3260.5s] imagine God prepared that we should be
[3263.9s] involved in this work as co-workers with
[3268.5s] him. Not by our own, but it is an honor
[3272.7s] God has given us. This is the love God
[3275.4s] wants us also to extend to others. And
[3278.4s] the joy is that when we do this as
[3281.2s] Matthew
[3282.7s] 5:14-16 says that we are the salt of the
[3286.0s] world. We are the light of the world. A
[3288.2s] city built on a hill cannot be hid. No
[3291.1s] one lights a lamp and puts under a
[3292.9s] bushel basket but on top of the
[3294.8s] lampstand so that people can see the
[3296.9s] light and give glory to our father in
[3300.3s] heaven. May we do whatever we do out of
[3303.4s] the love to give glory and honor to our
[3306.3s] father in heaven. Thank you. Amen. Amen.
[3310.5s] Wow. Um I can just commend the beautiful
[3314.1s] flow of the of the lessons for the week
[3317.0s] in terms of us starting out uh in the
[3320.1s] law of love and um God the author of the
[3323.9s] law being love. uh we are seeing the law
[3328.6s] uh is holy and righteous in terms of
[3331.2s] this is God's personality in him being
[3334.9s] holy and righteous law and grace in
[3338.9s] terms of God being graceful merciful to
[3342.2s] us and um finally what we are expected
[3346.8s] to do after going through the law and
[3350.1s] understanding the law and just seeing
[3352.0s] the personality and the touch of God in
[3354.9s] the law And what is striking is that
[3357.9s] even as we read through the law and the
[3360.2s] commandments that God has given us, one
[3362.7s] thing is for sure, the commandments are
[3365.0s] not to keep us away from God. The
[3367.7s] commandments are to bring us close to
[3370.3s] God. And just being able to to show this
[3375.0s] love to one another is is is the best
[3378.9s] thing that we could do. Thank you. Amen.
[3382.2s] SA I think in in reflecting sometimes in
[3385.6s] as much as uh going back to the question
[3387.1s] on legalism uh in in in as much as
[3389.9s] sometimes we we
[3392.5s] we would like to endeavor to keep the
[3395.1s] law of God by of in and of ourselves. I
[3398.8s] think it's difficult from from my own
[3401.3s] experience and from looking at others
[3403.5s] it's very difficult to love your
[3405.0s] neighbor especially if your neighbor is
[3407.5s] not your brother he's not your relative
[3409.2s] he's not somebody who you are interested
[3410.6s] in you know it's very difficult to do
[3413.0s] some of these things and so for us to to
[3415.2s] say that we can actually keep God's law
[3417.5s] without him is difficult so you see even
[3420.6s] in keeping God's law we need his grace
[3423.6s] because at some point somewhere along
[3425.4s] the line we may falter at some point
[3428.0s] somewhere along the line we we we we we
[3430.7s] may trip. So in and of ourselves we
[3433.0s] cannot keep God's law but if God is
[3436.1s] within us and if if God is and we align
[3439.2s] ourselves with God then uh through the
[3441.6s] power of the Holy Spirit he makes it uh
[3444.1s] he makes it easy. He says his burden is
[3446.6s] light his load is easy and his burden is
[3449.3s] light. His yoke is easy and his burden
[3451.0s] is light. And so uh it speaks to us uh
[3453.8s] my brothers and my sisters not to view
[3456.2s] these two things as separate that there
[3458.3s] is the law and then there is Christ.
[3460.4s] Let's not allow modernday uh
[3462.6s] philosophers and teachers of of the
[3465.1s] gospel so-called
[3467.6s] uh uh divorce us from divorce us from
[3470.5s] seeing Christ and the law uh as one
[3473.7s] thing. But we can only truly keep the
[3476.0s] law of God if God is within us. Amen.
[3479.0s] Amen Ruth. Um thank you so much. Um last
[3483.5s] year I think last year or last year but
[3485.2s] one um on the global youth day we had a
[3488.2s] theme showing up in cities. And when you
[3491.6s] look at that word showing it's a present
[3495.5s] continuous tense right uh that means is
[3498.7s] not something that is is supposed to be
[3500.6s] done once and be left. It's something
[3503.3s] that we ought to be doing all the time.
[3506.3s] I reflected on the fact that on that
[3509.0s] global youth day they went out just to
[3511.5s] seek the souls out there that are dying
[3514.9s] to the streets to the
[3516.8s] prisons to the hospitals and any other
[3520.1s] place where God's people are lavishing
[3522.4s] in pain and when we do that are we doing
[3526.3s] it only once and then we come back wait
[3529.4s] for another time that the maybe GC or
[3532.2s] the church or maybe a certain group is
[3534.2s] going to stand and say that we're going
[3535.3s] to do this how can we how I hope it's a
[3539.2s] challenge unto us that we can be able to
[3541.6s] stand and plan on our own and just the
[3544.6s] same way the word is saying showing all
[3546.7s] the time we should be consistent always
[3550.5s] in doing these works of God in
[3552.4s] expressing our love to others in every
[3555.1s] corner where they are so that we can be
[3557.6s] able to reflect the true character and
[3559.8s] perfect will of God even as we wait for
[3561.9s] his coming. May this be my prayer. May
[3565.0s] it be your prayer who is watching this
[3566.9s] today and all the time that you've been
[3568.8s] with us all through that may we be
[3571.4s] showing up all the time whenever we're
[3573.6s] being needed so that we can do the work
[3575.4s] of God. Amen. And our sister
[3579.2s] Rees just like a tree naturally produces
[3582.3s] fruits when it is healthy. A transformed
[3585.2s] Christian naturally obeys God's law not
[3588.0s] out of obligation but because grace has
[3590.9s] changed their hearts. The law guides us,
[3593.6s] but grace empowers us to obey it
[3596.4s] joyfully. And just like Ecclesiastes 12
[3600.2s] 13 says, fear God and keep his
[3603.2s] commandments for this is the whole duty
[3606.7s] of man. Amen. Amen. And
[3610.5s] amen. My dear church member, viewer,
[3614.0s] wherever you are, we have come to the
[3616.0s] end of the first quarter of our of our
[3618.0s] lesson this year. Can you imagine? God
[3619.9s] has brought us this far. We began with
[3622.4s] looking at love that is freely and we
[3624.9s] have come to the end with saying that it
[3630.4s] is. Love is a fulfillment of the law. My
[3634.1s] apologies. In essence, what is God
[3636.3s] saying that as we come to the end, God
[3638.0s] is a God of love, but he's also a love
[3639.9s] of a God of justice. So, I pray that
[3643.0s] when this lesson is over, you will feel
[3645.8s] that God is closer to you because he has
[3648.8s] loved us first. He's not even asking you
[3651.1s] to reach out to him first. God, you're
[3653.6s] loving back a God who's already loved
[3655.7s] you. Next quarter, we are starting a new
[3658.2s] quarter next week with a whole new team.
[3660.5s] We pray for them that the Lord would go
[3662.1s] before them. We're looking at illusions,
[3664.5s] images, and symbols, how to study Bible
[3667.3s] prophecy by our brother Shaun Bonstra. I
[3670.7s] pray that you will join us so that you
[3672.1s] can understand the power of prophecy.
[3674.6s] This church has been given the gift of
[3676.5s] prophecy and we need to understand how
[3679.2s] do we study Bible prophecy that we may
[3681.7s] be able to teach it to another. Until
[3684.0s] then, may the Lord God bless you, God
[3686.5s] bless your families. May he watch
[3688.3s] between us until we meet again in his
[3690.2s] own time. For this is our prayer for you
[3692.2s] and I in Jesus name. I'll ask our
[3694.4s] brother and son to pray for us as we
[3696.1s] close.
[3698.9s] Let's believe and pray. A kinder loving
[3701.9s] father and master art in heaven, we
[3703.6s] humbly come before you this blessed day.
[3705.9s] Thankful Lord for leading us throughout
[3708.4s] these 13 Sabbaths. Dear Lord, you have
[3711.5s] systematically through the inspiration
[3713.9s] that is the lesson and its
[3716.4s] authorship, try to reveal your justice
[3719.7s] and your love. How I pray dear Lord in a
[3723.1s] world in which you have been painted as
[3725.8s] severe in a world in which you have been
[3728.0s] painted as aloof to somebody this day
[3731.3s] they may be able to see a father a
[3734.2s] loving caring father who leads and
[3736.9s] guides through his law and ultimately
[3739.4s] covers us with his grace. Ultimately,
[3742.2s] our prayer, oh Lord, is that we may be
[3743.8s] able to see you high and lifted up. And
[3746.6s] dear Lord, may we in seeing you see love
[3749.9s] in action. And may this love inspire us
[3753.1s] equally to love one another. I pray in
[3756.0s] Jesus name.