Title: Lesson 1 || Some Principles of Prophecy || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: zrnk9ZlpSPc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zrnk9ZlpSPc
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Happy Sabbath. Good morning. Thank you for joining us for this new quarter, the second quarter of 2025. We are going to study a very interesting lesson. Uh we are just moving from God's love and justice and then now we're going to do illusions, images, symbols, how to study Bible prophecy. So, I know I've mentioned the word Bible prophecy and it might scare some of us um because when we think when we say Bible prophecy, we think about Revelation and Daniel. I want to ask us to be a little bit to change our attitude or rather our approach towards the bi the Bible and especially of the book of Daniel and Revelation. Let us just try and see what is it that God has in store for us through this quarter. And I am joined by my wonderful team here who will be leading us through this study. They are very enthusiastic. They are very happy and they're very eager to learn with us. So please join us in this and I pray that the Lord will lead us. Before we start, I'll ask Jafet to do for us an opening prayer. Okay. Thank you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity you've given us as panelists to discuss uh these themes of symbols. We ask you, Holy Spirit, give us insight and understanding and that you are with the ears of the hearers that your will may be done this day. In Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. So, we're also going to say our names so that our brothers and sisters can know who they are interacting with virtually. Starting with you. My name is Enongo Rafael. It's a pleasure to be with you. Amen. Praise God. My name is Jess Rono. I'm excited to be here with you this Sabbath day. Amen. Amen. Thank you. My name is Zafetron. I'm happy to be here. Kar Busana. I'm Romana Pio and I'm really really excited to be here to study with us the Bible prophecy. So now uh this is an interesting quarter indeed just to say u there is so much that is happening at the moment we if you've heard these words we are living at the tail end of the history of this world and if you are careful to ask your grandmother your grandfather they will also tell you in their times these were the exact words that were said depending on how rapid the events were in times. But surely at the moment I really really believe that surely we are almost uh at the tail end of the history of this world. Jesus is really really coming soon. And as Jesus foretold in the book of Matthew that before he comes there are things that will happen. And so here we are going to read the book of Revelation and Daniel and we are going to study many images um symbols and illusions that are in the Bible. So yes, you're going to focus in the book of Daniel and Revelation. But we are also going to look at the Psalms. We are going to look at the different uh things in the Bible, but how can we also view them in the Bible prophecy? things to note as you study this quarter or as you go through this quarter or as you study your lesson uh during your devotion time is that as Seventh Day Adventist we endeavor to take a different approach when doing uh Bible prophecy. We are not going to do Bible prophecy to instill fear amongst ourselves and even the people that you're going to preach to. But we are looking at Bible prophecy as a Christ centered approach in which when we are looking at prophecy it's not about a single geographical location. For example when there is war in Middle East now all the prophecy is directed to that uh place. No we are going to look at prophecy holistically biblically. Again we are also going to look at prophecy Bible prophecy from Genesis from how it started during the creation. We are going not to just understand it like we are just following it but we are going to see it from Genesis to the to the death of Christ at the cross and how significant that is to our lives. So it is also important to note that we cannot finish studying the Bible prophecy in one quarter. Surely it is not enough. Time can never be enough. But we might uh we might need to understand that we are going to ask the Holy Spirit to guide us through this so that when we are studying we understanding and we are going to widen our scope and we're going to take time to study for ourselves like Berean so that we make this an interesting study um transforming study a study that moves our lives forward as Christians. So to our first lesson, some principles of prophecy. This is like the foundation of this um quarter. And our memory text comes from the book of Jeremiah chapter 9 verse 24. Let him who glories glory in this that he understands and knows me that I am the Lord exercising loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. For in this I delight, says the Lord. You know, as Christians, we have very many denominations. And one thing that stands for sure is that not all Christians agree when it comes to Bible prophecies. People have think about this, people think about that, and it all comes from the Bible. Interestingly, we all interpret Bible verses and especially those that are geared towards prophecy differently. And we always never somewhat come to an agreement. But how are we going to do this? How are we going to to have an understanding as Seventh Day Adventist? How are we going to agree that you know this is actually it? When the book of Daniel says this, this is actually it. When the book of revelation says this, this is actually it. So uh this week we are going to explore some principles that yield a consistent and a reliable understanding of prophecy. The aim is for us to understand prophecy. So how can we do it? And we go to our first lesson. Whoever read let him understand which has been derived from the book of Matthew. And Raph please help us understand Matthew chapter 24:15. Whoever reads, let him understand. Those are Jesus words. Yes indeed. Uh Sunday speaks to us as we kick off uh this uh quarters lesson on the some of the principles of Bible prophecy. The author on Sunday simply is laboring to help us to understand that Bible prophecy was written with us in mind. Bible prophecy is God trying to help us understand the things that are going to happen and therefore secure our our our faith and anchor it in times of in times of uncertainty, in times of darkness, in times of trial. And so the example that is given there is generally that if you walk to any Christian bookshop or any any particular bookshop of of religious uh of a religious nature, you'll find a lot of books uh on esquetologology about the last day events and and the things that are going to happen in the future. And you find different authors with different interpretations, different books. And so the the the mind of a reader or the mind of of of of the inquisitor, this person who is doing some research who wants to to understand uh this particular concept may be led to conclude that perhaps Bible prophecy is very difficult because this author today will say this then in in a different edition they'd say oh I realized there was a mistake and they have refined this and even beyond uh one author changing their mind several times you find amongst multiple authors different thoughts on the same ch subject and on the same book and So it may be possible that perhaps to a certain extent you we may realize and say perhaps this subject is difficult for people to understand because various scholars from various um from various backgrounds v various theological outlooks and and and philosophies coming up with their own interpretations. But then the author draws us to go back to the text itself. For example, he he speaks to us about uh some texts concerning Bible prophecy in the Bible. And we see one theme uh that runs through for example in the one that uh gives us the heading from for Sunday Matthew 24:15 speaking about the abomination of the desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel and it says whosoever reads let him do what? Let him understand. So it's telling us that in the mind of God he's made it easy. It is within our capability. It is within the realm of our understanding to not only to read and to understand Bible prophecy. In revelation chapter 1 and verse three it's uh John writing about the the prophecies of revelation. It says whosoever do does what? Blessed is he who does what? Who reads and beyond that also does heareth and keepeth the sayings of this book or of this prophecy. in Matthew uh 11-29 same the same and the same sentiment is there is given that we need to understand we need to understand we need to read we need to and it's within our capabilities to grasp and finally in Jeremiah uh chapter 9 verse 23 and 24 it speaks about God is saying if you're to glory as a Christian glory in the following things that you should glory that you understands. Let him that glorious glorious in this that he understandeth and knoweth knoweth me. Understanding and knowing God. God is saying simply his word in which he he he proclaims himself is something that we can understand and that we can know. And so we see the the gist rather the heart of the message on Sunday is that Bible prophecy can be understood. Bible prophecy can we can have there is a true north. It's not we're not left uh everybody to their own interpretation, everybody to their own inklings but that the spirit of God has laid out clear principles by which if we follow then indeed we can know and we can understand and it is required of us to read and to understand. And so we are finally towards the end it's it's we we're told about um an instructor who does not hear the voice of God speaking while others can come to conclusions at odds with the message of the Bible simply because we do not follow the principles that the Bible has given to us you know and so what are some of the things uh some of the things that we need for example attitude uh the attitude as you approach the Bible as a living word of God. You know, without being surrendered to the Lord and without an open heart, open to learning the truth, then those who read the Bible will most likely come away with not only missing its message, but also misunderstanding the loving and the holy character of God as he has revealed himself in his in in in its pages. And so there are many principles even uh as we approach scripture, God himself says he he he he reveals himself to those who are humble and of a of a contrite heart almost telling us the attitude which we should approach scripture itself. You see, and then he continues and says, "It could be easier to do than many realize." Which is why just reading the Bible, but without the right tools and most importantly the right attitude under the guidance of the Holy Spirit can actually be be quite hurtful and can can mislead and one can find themselves in error in interpretation. And so the Bible and its prophecies, the Bible from Genesis to Revelation, everything there from the gospel to the prophecies can be understood. And if we are to glory, let us glory in this that we understand and know God as he has revealed himself in his word. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much, Raph. That is powerful. Like when we are reading the Bible, there are principles to it. You do not come uh with your knowledge to the Bible. You come empty. You come as a child. It makes me just wonder, no wonder Jesus was saying that uh for us to make it to the kingdom of heaven, we have to be like children. You know, for children, whatever you tell them, that is the truth. You know, so for us, the Bible, whatever it tells us, that is the truth. You're coming with the attitude of learning from Christ and under the guidance of the Holy Spirit with a contrite and a humble heart. That still brings me to a question. Um just the people when they read the Bible they're looking for loopholes you know they're looking for that loophole uh this passage yes it is okay but there's something missing what is the problem w with that attitude actually the Bible warns us of a people like that in the book of um 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 God gives a prophetic message and he talks about a people who will come to the word of God who do not love the truth truth and are not seeking for the truth in the word of God. And God gives us uh gives them a warning. Um in verse 10, it reads and says, "And with all deceivleness of unrighteousness in them that perish because they received not the love of the truth that they might be saved." What did God do? God allowed them. For this cause God shall send them strong delusion that they should believe a lie. that they all might be damned who believed not the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. Those who come there seeking for loopholes to especially actually most people want to support their unrighteousness want to support their lifestyle. God says you're looking for a lie. I will actually allow I will permit you to find a lie. And how God will allow the devil to come and deceive you. We need to understand that the Bible is a book about God. You know, a part of the Bible would ask um and say who can by searching find him out. That his knowledge is even too big for us to be able to fully find him out. And if we understand that the Bible is a book about him, then we come humbly with an attitude of like, Lord, teach me, teach me. If you come with an attitude of I know better, I will come and find loopholes. you will definitely find loopholes and God says I will allow you to actually be deceived and you will believe a lie. Amen. Amen. So I think it's a question of how do you want to read the Bible? Do you want to be deceived or do you want actually to know the truth? And the Bible says that you shall know the truth and the truth shall do what shall set you free. So do you want to be set free? We want to just uh continue in that uh cycle of looking for loopholes because you'll find them if you're looking for them. And now we move to the second uh part. We we've moved from whoever is let him understand and we just coming to realize that actually God wants to be understood. Uh Jafet please take us through that. Yes, in fact God does indeed want to be understood. I think we have seen that the text the scriptures are comprehensible. Uh brother Rafael has really explained that quite clearly. God himself is communicating something to his people. God is communicating specific messages to his people in his word. But there's something that we have to appreciate. Um uh there's normally this issue that you and I can sometimes have uh friend of communication you know um we're in a country you know like we we all speak some some English okay but sometimes the others you go to some places someone speaks their own u mother tongue and language and there's a difficulty or a barrier of communication and this can hinder uh our our desire to move forward on an issue. uh this same thing applies to God but not God towards us but us towards God because God fully is able to comprehend and understand everything about us but because of the vastness of God and there are some verses I would like us to go through we appreciate before moving forward that God is understanding 100% of God is impossible in the book of Psalms chapter 139 uh verse 1 to verse 6 David himself is saying the Lord H you have searched me and known me. Verse one, you have known my sitting down and my rising up. Verse four, it says there is not a word in my tongue. Uh but l you you know it all. Verse five, it says that God has compassed David fully. Verse six, in fact is actually the lynch pin. It says such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain unto you. That God's understanding of us is so complete that his understanding of us even exceeds our own understanding of ourselves. Again in Psalm 147:E5 you find the same idea that God's understanding is infinite. Great is our Lord of great power. His understanding is infinite. In the book of Romans, Paul himself tells us that God's understanding the depths of his knowledge are unsearchable. It is not possible to for us to try and comprehend full things or everything about God. It is not possible. It says even there are some things on earth right now that we don't understand fully. There are fields of physics and chemistry and and science the the cutting edge where people have I've accepted that they don't understand. I was personally for my own um studies trying to understand a particular topic of physics called quantum physics and on the first lecture the lecturer himself said I want you to understand that I don't understand quantum physics fully and at the very end of this lecture series you will come to understanding that you are like me that you also don't understand it fully now imagine of of these earthly things that their experts of experts have come to understanding that they don't understand fully how much more the god who is the author author of all creation. Surely understanding him should be even less than than complete um of the natural world. So it is it is almost a humility that um our brother Rafel was talking about. It almost sets upon the mind a humility that I can't understand all things but there is something I can understand. I don't want us to live with you know almost a hopeless approach. It is that a appreciating God's infinite knowledge is there to help have humility enter into our hearts so that we can go to the study of the word of God with a humble and a contrite spirit. Why is that? Because even if we can't understand everything about God, there are some things that God is communicating to us. When Paul was speaking to Timothy in the book of 2 Timothy chapter 34-15, Paul was telling Timothy that as a child there were things that he was able to fully understand. 2 Timothy 3:14:15 for uh but continue in the things which you have learned and have been assured of knowing of them you have knowing of whom you have learned them and that from a child you are you have known the holy scriptures which are able to make you wise unto salvation through faith faith which is in Christ Jesus so that there are things that we can understand and chiefly matters to do with our salvation in the book of Isaiah 1:18 when God is interacting with Israel. He has listed all the sins of Israel. He has told Israel, "Your sin from the head of your your your your from the top of your head to the bottom of of of the sole of your foot is entirely sinful." He says verse 18, "Come, let us reason together." There is something God wants us to know about him regarding our salvation and how best we can walk with him. when when Moses who was communicating on God's behalf in the book of Deuteronomy chapter 30 when he had listed all the curses that would come upon Israel once they had forsaken the Lord in fact you should take time to study Deuteronomy chapter 28 in Deuteronomy chapter 30 what does God say God say through Moses verse 11 to verse 14 um God says through Moses that the commandment that God has given through Moses to us is not some mystical thing is not some incomprehensible thing. The commands, the things God wants us to do. He says verse 12, it is not in heaven that you shall ask who shall go up to heaven to find it. Or verse 13, it's not beyond the sea that's that you must soj to a far away land to find it. Verse 14, he says, "But the word is nigh unto you. It is in your mouth. It is in your very heart." So that Moses was actually speaking and saying what the words with regard to our how we should live our lives are actually God has revealed these things to us. In fact Paul himself referencing this text in the book of Romans chapter 10. I believe it's Romans chapter 10 reading from verse 6 to verse 8. Now he says that word in fact is the gospel. It's so that there are things that God wants us to understand. Those things have to do with our salvation. viewer, my friend. I really hope that you appreciate this, that you can take time to study with regard to your salvation, your walk with the Lord, and you can surely be convinced that you will surely understand God's path and God's desire for you in your life. Yeah. Amen. Thank you so much, Chap. Uh thank you for just helping us understand that God wants to be understood. Like it's an open kind of communication. God doesn't have communication issues. He's actually very elaborate. He's very clear. And just to prove that, I'll read the book of first John chapter 5 verse uh verse three. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments and his commandments are not burdensome. So it is not God is not asking you to understand physics. God is asking you to understand the very things that he has given you in the in his word and he's saying these things are not hard as you think please just have humility ask the holy spirit for guidance and you'll be able to understand and that brings me to a question Raph and sometimes we tend to focus on the things that we do not understand so how how should this help us that this God's wrath has told that told us that the commandments of God are not burden some that these things can actually be understood that actually God wants to do what to be understood. So how is it crucial for us to focus on what we know and leave that which we do not know and stop obsessing over what we do not know. I think um as we shall see also later on in the lesson, the some the the way God works is such that he gives you more than enough. Such that that which is known compared to that which is not known, that which is known is sufficient for your faith. That which is known is sufficient to to to to calm your nerves and to answer all your questions. And so sometimes if we obsess on the dark on the dark on the on the darker sides of of of of of of some faith questions, you know, uh and and then also even that which is known itself gives us hope of one day understanding that which is not known. So you see um there's an aspect of where now we also have to approach it and apply faith because if we are to understand everything then it it stops being faith starts being science because now we've understood oh this is x y z and this and that but so we are given enough evidence by which on which to make decisions sufficient evidence of the love of god sufficient evidence of his presence sufficient evidence of his interest and and of his of his plan for our salvation. And the all of these they'll still you still have questions especially sometimes and often the the the things in which we have questions more often than not sometimes tend to be individualized and personal. They're not necessarily corporate only in a few issues in which you'll find almost all Christianom cannot answer a particular issue. But more often than not sometimes the nuances of of of faith the dark regions of faith are are personal. you know the way certain aspects of your life how these things happen. If God is truly loving then why did X Y and Zed happen to me? You know why did uh why didn't this and that happen? But then that which God has revealed that which is known also promises us that when the trumpet of the Lord shall sound and indeed this mortal shall put on immortality that which is known shall meet together with that which is unknown and we shall know as we are known and we shall see him as he is. Amen. Amen. There's a day everything will be laid bare for us. But until then, let us hold on to the hope of that which we have understood and proceed without faith, without the compliance, without thinking that now you're not ignoring that which you do not know but you're just having faith like Rafael has told us that if I have understood this surely I will also understood that which is a bit hard for now. Ah yes we move to Daniel 12:4 and God is saying very interesting words to Daniel. Daniel shut up the words. I've tried to read it in a way that it's not rude. So please tell us about why is God telling Daniel to shut up the words. You know it's interesting especially because we are coming from uh that topic of God wants to be understood and then he says okay this part please close it we are not going to interpret it. Um maybe actually maybe to just open that um a thought just come has come to my mind in the book of second Peter um second Peter Peter is speaking about his experience with Christ Jesus in chapter one and he's speaking about how God honestly truly wanted to be understood to the extent that when people had fully misunderstood who he was he said I will come down myself so that I can reveal myself to you And Peter says that we were eyewitnesses of this. We saw him f elsewhere in first John 1:1. John says that we even touched him. We experienced him. We heard him. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. That is what Peter says in chapter 1 verse 16. But then in verse 19, he says something that's very interesting. And he says besides all this, besides even our personal experience with him, besides even the very because God wanted to be so much understood that he came, there's something better that God has given to us to even understand him much more. In the book of second Peter, he tells us what that is. In verse 19, he says, "But even after all this, we have also a more sure word of prophecy, where unto you do well that you take heed as unto a light that shineth in the dark place until the day dawn and the day star arise in your hearts." And he says, "Knowing this first that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation, that there's one interpretation of the prophetic word." And when we come to the book of Daniel, which is a prophetic book filled with symbols, filled with um um um imagery, filled with things that look very difficult for the human mind to understand, written differently. You know, other books of the Bible, even even when they are prophetic, they are written in a very literal way. You can understand say, "Oh, Babylon will come take you over, you know, you people will go over to another land of captivity for 70 years." Other prophets prophesied in a very literal way but not so with Daniel and also not so with John the revelator. They used symbols. They used a lot of imagery and and and all this God has given it to us saying that this is a more sure word of prophecy that even in me giving it to you. However, maybe sometimes it might look weird or or or words that you don't interact with every day. I've given it to you because I want you to understand it is a more sure word of my revelation of myself of myself. And in Daniel 12:4, Daniel has been seeing a lot of visions um um through the book of Daniel. And in the last in the in the in in in in in the last chapter after he's shown a particular vision um in the last chapter in verse four the Bible says but thou oh Daniel shut up the words and seal the book even to the time of the end many shall run to and fro and and knowledge shall be increased which is contrasted very well with Revelation chapter 22 but I will read that shortly maybe to just clarify what is what is this that is being seen here. Of course, we know it is not Daniel chapter 2. Why? Daniel chapter 2 was already interpreted. It's not the whole book of Daniel. We also know it is not Daniel chapter 7 because Daniel comes and tells us who are the beasts and when they will arise and he talks about them. But there's a very particular vision that Daniel receives in Daniel 8:14 especially. And he he he himself when he sees it he becomes so stressed that he collapses and for months and weeks he's praying and he prays and prays for months never understanding this and God comes and gives him the interpretation. And when Christ gives him the interpretation there's one part of the prophecy connected to the 2300 days and the judgment of the end that was still not clarified to him. And this prophecy was never revealed. Its understanding was never given in the book of Daniel. And that is the little portion of the book of Daniel that is closed. And we are told that will be understood. God says, "I really want to be understood, but it will be understood when when the time comes at the time of the end." In the book of Revelation chapter 10, we see Christ standing um between the land and the sea. And he rises up he raises up a little book that little book that was closed in the book of Daniel. Uh in the book of Daniel 12 we see Christ now standing up and we are told that this little book that had been closed is now what in Daniel Revelation 10:2 we see the little book is open. So we do know that the time of the end now when Christ is rising up during the time of the sixth trumpet the book has been opened and re revelation chapter 22 makes it clear if there is any doubt makes it clear what the portion of the prophecy that was that was closed what it pertained to in Revelation 22 10 the Bible says and he saith unto me you see it was sealed in the book of Daniel now please do not seal it say the This do not seal seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book. Why? For the time is at hand. In Daniel chapter 12, the time had not yet come. But now the time is at hand. And then verse 11 connects us directly to tell us why this book was not the whole book of Daniel but that little portion of the book of Daniel regarding the judgment. He says he that is unjust let him be unjust. We know the people will be judged. So that those who will be unjust let them be unjust. Those who will be filthy, let those who will be righteous, let them be righteous. To tell us that it is the portion of the book related to the judgment and the 2300 day prophecy that was sealed in the book of Daniel. That was the portion that God had sealed. But he wants to be so much understood that during its time um he reveals himself and the verse is very interesting. It says that in those last days know many shall run to and fro and knowledge shall be increased. You know many people usually think of this as saying let me tell you we will understand science. You see this AI development. Uhhuh. It is what God prophesied in Daniel chapter 12. See how knowledge is increasing. You see if anything I think we are we are going back. You know my husband and I were talking about discoveries in physics. There have not been major big discoveries in physics for many years. Even though people think knowledge is increasing but the particular knowledge spoken of here it is the knowledge of the word of God. How do we know this? In the book of Amos I will not read but you can note it down. In the book of um Amos we see people running to and fro running to and fro looking for the knowledge of God. Roma Amos 8:12 they they are running to and fro and it is very specific in Amos says they go back and forth looking for the word of God they're not looking for AI they're not looking for signs it is the word of God that they run to and look for but God promises that in the last days when this book is opened it shall finally be revealed and it will be understood and you know it's interesting actually to again maybe to emphasize that it's not the whole book of Daniel that was closed but it's just that little portion you know in the third century we had people who had inter the same interpretations we have of seventh day adventist they had them already a man called Hippolyas had already had those interpretations of of of and understood who who who who who are those beasts and they had clear interpretations and even way before William Miller um gave us the interpretation or rather not gave us but rather publicized the interpretation of the 2300 day prophecy at the time of the end. We had people when God had brought the time of the end very close. We had um a man who was um a a a pastor in the Calvinist church, a German pastor in the Calvinist church in the 1768 close to the time of the end which is 1798 and he was already teaching on the uh dayear principle and interpreting 2300 day prophecy even way before William Miller. We had a man called Daniel Witby again using the dayy year principle and interpreting um uh the 2300 day prophecy. So we can see from 1798 the knowledge was increased not just with William Miller but many other people from different parts of the world studied and this knowledge of the time of the end of the book that was closed the portion that was closed was finally being understood why God wanted us to know him and to understand him even when we are confused about judgment he wanted us to understand him and to know him through prophecy. Amen. Thank you Jess. Thank you. Really um when Daniel was being told to sh shut up the words, it was not yet time. And as the Bible says, when it is time, he makes things he makes things beautiful, right? It's in the book of Isaiah. So, it's not just about God blessing us, but it is also blessing us in terms of his word. And I can relate to what Jess is saying. There's so much knowledge. People know so much at the moment. People know AI, how to use it, how to manipulate it. People know how to talk about therapy language. You're just having a conversation, then someone is telling you that's manipulating, that's guilt tripping, you know, but like Jess has told us uh it's not about the worldly knowledge, but it is about the God's word. God's knowledge. So really, God wants to be understood and as we go on, we'll be able to understood. So we be able to understand so much that we've not been able to even get a glimpse of so long as we remember to be humble to ask the guidance of the Holy Spirit and have the right attitude when reading the Bible which brings us to studying the word the Wednesday part and you'll be led by Raph. All right. So uh Wednesday is talking about studying the word and uh the aim of Wednesday is simply to give us some pointers uh enable to to enable us to have a more accurate interaction with the word of God. And uh and one of the mentions there is made of a gentleman that um Jess has mentioned uh called William Miller who came up as you've seen uh amongst many others in that around that time when there was a revival and an interest in the second coming of Christ and they came up with various principles that they used to interpret Bible scripture. Some of them were wrong but generally in essence these men and women laid down the foundations some of the keys by which then many generations subsequent generations have used their methods uh and and and and have been able to understand Bible prophecy uh in a much better way. But then let us look at scripture itself. What does this what does what does what does scripture say about the word of God? What does scripture say about studying God's word? We'll turn to the book of Matthew chapter 5 and 18. And the Bible records and and Christ himself says the following in verse 17. He begins and says, "Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come to destroy but to fulfill." See, Christ himself is saying he's he he's coming and is in agreement with both the law and the and the prophets. Then he says in verse 18, for verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, not one jot or one tit shall in no wise pass from the law till it all be fulfilled. So it's telling us that Christ himself takes Bible prophecy seriously and uh by extension the law of God. And so when we are studying God's word, then we should be mindful not only of his law but also of what the prophets have written. Of what the prophets have written because Christ says if you are to compare his life then you will find that his life is in keeping with what the prophets have written and also what the law of God requires. Not even one jot or title shall pass away until it is all fulfilled. In 2 Timothy, a text which Japth has alluded to us also in 2 Timothy chapter 3:15-17, uh Paul writing to Timothy writes and says the following. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, not just any writings, but the holy scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ. Who? Which is in Christ Jesus. tells us that the words, the holy scriptures, the Bible, the word of God is important and is vital that it is able to make us wise unto salvation. If you want to know the way of salvation, we must study the Bible and we must study it appropriately and it and we must also apply what faith which is where in Christ Jesus. A question I always like us when we read the word of God to be mindful when Paul is writing to Timothy is saying you have known the holy scriptures in essence Paul is referring to the old testament because it is the old testament that was the scripture back then when they're talking about the scripture when Christ himself is saying you study study the word you know study the scriptures in essence is asking us to consider the books of Genesis all the way to Zechariah Mariah because these are the men and women who later on now contributed to the New Testament. So Paul is telling this young man Timothy to study the prophecies of the Old Testament to study the the writings of the Old Testament and to and and and in considering them he'll be able to find salvation. Yet we find that most people today speak of salvation as being a New Testament thing. You know like salvation is only found we are in the new dispensation the dispensation of grace and of and and and of all these things but Paul whose writings we use to say we're in this new dispensation in is talking to Timothy and to all Timothies uh who came after the original Timothy who is us as Christians to study the holy scriptures and he continues and says all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine. And once again in Matthew we were told not even one jot or title. Now Paul is saying all scripture scripture in its entirety you know and and we shouldn't need uh pick and choose you know ah this seems like an old testament thing this seems a this seems this and that. But Paul is speaking to us and says all scripture is given by inspiration of God and that it is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And in verse 17, he says that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Reasons why we should study the word of God. continues and we're now called to consider in the book of Luke Luke chapter 24 and verse 27 and it says the following that after the this is the walk to a mouse and Christ has resurrected and there's a new person who's entering into Jerusalem and he doesn't know the story of the crucifixion and of and and and and and of the happenings and now the Bible records that now Christ himself is explaining to them and in verse Vers 27 he says almost mirroring what is was he said in Matthew 5 and 18 not one jotto title until it is fulfilled in verse 27 Christ is explaining to this person and he says beginning at Moses and all the prophets not some of the prophets all the prophets he expounded unto them all the scriptures the things unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself self. And so we see the Bible prophecy isn't simply the reserve of Daniel. That the Bible prophecy isn't simply the reserve of maybe in now in the New Testament only of the book of Revelation, but we can find um one single line of thought in Isaiah 28 and:e 13 that would interest us to read when we are looking at studying God's word. Isaiah writes and says the following. But the word of the Lord was unto them percept upon percept, percept upon percept, line upon line, here a little and there a little. That God's word is like a jigsaw puzzle. And so for us to appreciate its entirety, we must consider scripture in its entirety. Also, the example that the author of uh of of of the Wednesday lesson also speaks to us, it's like a puzzle that has a landscape, a farm and animals. You know, if you if you feel this jigsaw puzzle and stop halfway, you'll say perhaps it's a puzzle of a donkey, you know, but if you continue, you realize there other animals and oh, beyond it them being animals, it's a farm. There are plants. Beyond it being a farm, there's it's a city and there's even a mountain range in in in in in in the background. And so God's word must be taken in its entirety. It must be taken in its entirety. Similarly also when we approaching studying God's word we must also be wary of forming an idea or a whole theology on one text. We must also look at the weight of evidence. You know for example on the state of the dead there are those example where in the in the in the new testament where Christ gives example of Lazarus the rich man and Lazarus and also somewhere in the writings of Paul Paul says when Christ died he went into pition you know and he he there are some souls that he delivered and some people say use that text to speak about purgatory you know but if we were to look at line upon line here a little and there little if you to look at the jigsaw puzzle in its entirety then we know the true state of the dead that the dead are dead. You know, there is no uh halfway house on your way to heaven or on your way to hell, you know. And uh once we are dead, we are waiting. We are waiting for the resurrection and for the judgment. And so we see um the weight of evidence. We must we must look at all scripture and not isolated texts. All scripture and not isolated text. And even the text in itself, we shouldn't isolate it. You know, the text should also be appreciated in context. you know understand the setting with which Christ was giving the story of the rich man and Lazarus you know instead of forming forming a whole theology we must look at it in its context also so contextually and also on the weight of evidence and this is very important not in order to enable us not to fall into the trap of selecting specific test texts on a particular topic instead of looking at the Bible carefully in context and with the weight of evidence. Amen. Thank you. Uh Raph has also even helped us to to just answer the question of what is our experience with those who only use certain Bible verses to prove their points. And if you look carefully, these are the same people who read the Bible to look for loopholes. So they also use certain like, you know, you've met this verse and you're proving a point. That's not how the Bible should be read. The Bible should be read in its like in its completeness, you know, and it answers itself. Um, time is far much spent, but we still have the Thursday part where we talk about figurative or literal. So, what is like the Bible language? We've been studying the word of God, but how should we look at the Bible language? Is it really figurative or literal? Um I think uh what our brother has been speaking about of the text uh taking the text out of its context and and to to help understand it that applies especially with regard to Bible prophecy. And this is something that we would notice as a h as you do a study of Bible prophecy, specifically apocalyptic prophecy. The book of Daniel, the book of Revelation, some symbols in the like the book of Zechariah, you find a lot of symbols used. And then the question is, are these symbols supposed to be taken literally, allegorically or or um in a symbol or in a symbolic way? And the answer is largely it is best to allow the Bible to explain itself. There's actually a text that uh just read in 2 Peter chapter um 1 verse 20 and 21 where Peter is actually telling us that the Holy Spirit inspired the Bible as one almost like one organism like one entity one thing uh second Peter 1:20 and 21 knowing this that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation why for the prophecy came not in all time by the will of man. But holy men spake as they were moved by who? Moved by the Holy Spirit. This tells us therefore that the Holy Spirit is the who inspired the book of Daniel, inspired the book of Matthew, inspired the book of Hebrews, inspired Zechariah, Genesis also inspired the book of Revelation. And therefore, the symbols and texts and the ideas presented there should be communicating with each other. It's almost it's like one idea has been spread out all over the text and several ideas have have had this um applied to them. There are few text here I want us to read and we will actually see that symbols are explained by the Bible itself. So that we don't have to go outside you know like for instance in the Bible there is a symbol of a bear right a bear with three ribs in its mouth. Now presently from current politics we know that a bear represents what? Russia. Yes. Uh the eagle represents what? America, you know, the dragon represents China, you know, things like that. And h that's all nice, but that cannot be used to be applied in the scriptures. You know, in the book of uh in the book of Daniel chapter 8, there is there is a ram um with two horns that is attacked by a goat with one horn that moves at a speed, sitting speed, it doesn't even touch the ground. Somebody took that and then applied it to what the twin towers being hit by one jet. You know that's it's interesting but clearly that application is not from inside the Bible that's outside. So let's allow the Bible to interpret itself in these examples. The book of Daniel 7 from verse 7 we find uh a particular symb um prophetic text. It says after this I saw in night visions uh a fourth beast and at the very end we are told the fourth beast had 10 horns. We are told it's great and terrible and does many wonderful things. But we're told at the very end of that verse, it has 10 horns. In the book of Daniel chapter 8, we have another beast that has two horns. After I lifted my eyes and behold, I saw a ram with two horns and the two horns were high and the higher came up last. Now, we don't have to go everywhere searching or trying to understand for ourselves, meditating and the like. No, we can go to the Bible itself. We saw that the Holy Spirit is one. The Holy Spirit who inspired one text of the Bible inspired the other text as well. Daniel 7:4 explains to us what the symbol of the horn represents. The 10 horns we are told Daniel 7:24 the 10 horns out of this kingdom are 10 kings h that shall arise after them um uh that shall arise and another shall arise after them and he shall be diverse from the first king and he shall subdue all kings. and uh and and then verse 23 we are told um the fourth beast is the fourth kingdom uh which shall be diverse from all the kingdoms. So you can actually see here that horns have been given an interpretation that is within the bible text that we don't have to go very far to understand what the bible text represents. Again, in the book of Revelation 1:16, we are told that there is a symbol of Jesus Christ. Clearly, it is a being that has the face like the sun, the feet like brass, and we're told out of his mouth comes what? A sharp twoedged sword. Now, what does that mean? Does that mean that when talking to Jesus, you should be dodging in the event that you know like swords just attack you and daggers? No. It's a symbol. Uh in the book of Ephesians 6:17, we are told to arm ourselves with what? the sword of the spirit which is the word of God. And again in Hebrews chapter 4:12, so the first was Ephesians 6:17. Hebrews 4:12, we are told that the word is sharper than a two-edged sword, able to divide even between the soul and the spirit. So again, we know what the symbol of the sword represents. It is the word of God. Again, a third symbol that we we find often in the Bible is in the book of Revelation 12:1. We are told there is a woman who is a wondrous symbol of a woman who is clothed with the sun. On her feet h she's standing on the moon and on her head she has a crown of 12 stars. You know we people ask questions. Is this woman Mary? Is this woman Eve? Who is this woman? The Bible explains itself. Revelation 21 verse2 we are told that Christ is um coming down with his bride. Revelation 21:2 we're told that out of heaven um I saw I John saw the holy city New Jerusalem come down from God out of heaven prepared as a what bride adorned for her husband and again in Ephesians 5:31 and 32 it appears like Paul is talking about the affection and the love that should be there between and the relationship between the husband and the wife but then in verse 32 he says what I speak of the church this is a mystery I speak of the church. In fact, in uh 2 Corinthians, I believe 11:2, it says that he has um he presents a ch the the the church as as a spouse as a spouse of Christ, a chasteed virgin, as a spouse prepared for Christ. Again, even in the Old Testament, the all of Ezekiel chapter 16 um and in Jeremiah chapter 6:2, we are told, I have likened the daughter of Zion to a comely and a delicate woman. You see the symbol of a woman therefore represents what? A church. And even by extension when you look at the woman of revelation chapter 17 who is a hallot. You can see that must be what? A fallen church. So do you see that the Bible explains itself and the symbols are clear as you're reading the Bible to have it explain itself. Thank you. Amen. So what I can just conclude and say is that the Bible language can be literal or figurative depending on the context. Yeah. So thank you so much for joining us. Uh like we when we started I said that it cannot we cannot study all these things in one quarter. So even one lesson is not enough for us to exhaustively study everything. My plea to us is that we go back to the word of God. My plea to us is that we should not be afraid of Bible prophecy. And my plea to us is that we're going to talk about a lot of history. We are going to refer to many Bible chapters, Bible verses like the Bans. Go back, sit down, read in your own time. So when we are having this study, it's a bit an easy walk for all of us. The Lord will guide us. The Holy Spirit will strengthen us to understand his word. Uh thank you so much for joining us today. We are praying that you'll be with us again uh for our second lesson uh next week which will be the Genesis Foundation. Um may God keep you until then. Just please close for us with a word of prayer. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, thank you that you have shown us that you truly do want to be understood. Help us to understand the most difficult passages and help us in those passages to see you. As we enter into your word, reveal yourself to us for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[8.4s] Happy Sabbath. Good morning. Thank you
[11.7s] for joining us for this new quarter, the
[14.1s] second quarter of 2025. We are going to
[17.3s] study a very interesting lesson. Uh we
[20.5s] are just moving from God's love and
[22.4s] justice and then now we're going to do
[24.6s] illusions, images, symbols, how to study
[27.6s] Bible prophecy. So, I know I've
[30.2s] mentioned the word Bible prophecy and it
[33.1s] might scare some of us um because when
[36.4s] we think when we say Bible prophecy, we
[38.9s] think about Revelation and Daniel. I
[41.6s] want to ask us to be a little bit to
[44.6s] change our attitude or rather our
[48.7s] approach towards the bi the Bible and
[51.4s] especially of the book of Daniel and
[53.4s] Revelation. Let us just try and see what
[56.4s] is it that God has in store for us
[59.1s] through this quarter. And I am joined by
[61.5s] my wonderful team here who will be
[63.6s] leading us through this study. They are
[65.9s] very enthusiastic. They are very happy
[68.8s] and they're very eager to learn with us.
[72.3s] So please join us in this and I pray
[74.8s] that the Lord will lead us. Before we
[76.9s] start, I'll ask Jafet to do for us an
[79.5s] opening prayer. Okay. Thank you. Let's
[81.8s] pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for
[84.1s] the opportunity you've given us as
[85.8s] panelists to discuss uh these themes of
[88.8s] symbols. We ask you, Holy Spirit, give
[90.9s] us insight and understanding and that
[92.8s] you are with the ears of the hearers
[94.9s] that your will may be done this day. In
[96.6s] Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[99.1s] Thank you. So, we're also going to say
[101.6s] our names so that our brothers and
[104.3s] sisters can know who they are
[106.2s] interacting with virtually. Starting
[108.6s] with you. My name is Enongo Rafael. It's
[111.4s] a pleasure to be with you. Amen.
[115.5s] Praise God. My name is Jess Rono. I'm
[118.0s] excited to be here with you this Sabbath
[120.5s] day. Amen. Amen. Thank you. My name is
[123.0s] Zafetron. I'm happy to be here. Kar
[125.3s] Busana. I'm Romana Pio and I'm really
[128.1s] really excited to be here to study with
[130.8s] us the Bible prophecy. So now uh this is
[135.8s] an interesting quarter indeed just to
[138.2s] say u there is so much that is happening
[142.2s] at the moment we if you've heard these
[145.8s] words we are living at the tail end of
[148.5s] the history of this world and if you are
[151.4s] careful to ask your grandmother your
[153.5s] grandfather they will also tell you in
[155.7s] their times these were the exact words
[158.3s] that were said depending on how rapid
[161.3s] the events were in times. But surely at
[164.3s] the moment I really really believe that
[167.7s] surely we are almost uh at the tail end
[171.3s] of the history of this world. Jesus is
[173.1s] really really coming soon. And as Jesus
[176.0s] foretold in the book of Matthew that
[178.1s] before he comes there are things that
[179.8s] will happen. And so here we are going to
[183.5s] read the book of Revelation and Daniel
[186.2s] and we are going to study many images um
[190.3s] symbols and illusions that are in the
[192.5s] Bible. So yes, you're going to focus in
[194.6s] the book of Daniel and Revelation. But
[196.2s] we are also going to look at the Psalms.
[198.6s] We are going to look at the different uh
[201.6s] things in the Bible, but how can we also
[204.4s] view them in the Bible prophecy? things
[207.2s] to note as you study this quarter or as
[210.2s] you go through this quarter or as you
[212.5s] study your lesson uh during your
[215.0s] devotion time is that as Seventh Day
[217.2s] Adventist we endeavor to take a
[219.4s] different approach when doing uh Bible
[222.5s] prophecy. We are not going to do Bible
[224.9s] prophecy to instill fear amongst
[227.6s] ourselves and even the people that
[229.7s] you're going to preach to. But we are
[232.2s] looking at Bible prophecy as a Christ
[234.6s] centered approach in which when we are
[237.4s] looking at prophecy it's not about a
[240.0s] single geographical location. For
[242.0s] example when there is war in Middle East
[244.2s] now all the prophecy is directed to that
[247.1s] uh place. No we are going to look at
[249.3s] prophecy holistically biblically. Again
[253.0s] we are also going to look at prophecy
[255.8s] Bible prophecy from Genesis from how it
[258.8s] started during the creation. We are
[261.3s] going not to just understand it like we
[263.9s] are just following it but we are going
[266.5s] to see it from Genesis to the to the
[270.8s] death of Christ at the cross and how
[273.8s] significant that is to our lives.
[277.0s] So it is also important to note that we
[281.0s] cannot finish studying the Bible
[283.4s] prophecy in one quarter. Surely it is
[285.9s] not enough. Time can never be enough.
[288.8s] But we might uh we might need to
[293.4s] understand that we are going to ask the
[295.4s] Holy Spirit to guide us through this so
[298.7s] that when we are studying we
[300.4s] understanding and we are going to widen
[302.7s] our scope and we're going to take time
[305.6s] to study for ourselves like Berean so
[308.2s] that we make this an interesting study
[312.4s] um transforming study a study that moves
[315.4s] our lives forward as Christians. So to
[318.9s] our first lesson, some principles of
[322.2s] prophecy. This is like the foundation of
[324.6s] this um quarter. And our memory text
[328.4s] comes from the book of Jeremiah chapter
[330.6s] 9 verse
[333.2s] 24. Let him who glories glory in this
[337.5s] that he understands and knows me that I
[340.6s] am the Lord exercising loving kindness,
[344.7s] judgment, and righteousness in the
[346.9s] earth. For in this I delight, says the
[350.6s] Lord. You
[352.4s] know, as Christians, we have very many
[356.2s] denominations. And one thing that stands
[358.6s] for sure is that not all Christians
[361.7s] agree when it comes to Bible prophecies.
[365.0s] People have think about this, people
[367.4s] think about that, and it all comes from
[369.5s] the Bible. Interestingly, we all
[371.6s] interpret Bible verses and especially
[374.2s] those that are geared towards prophecy
[376.4s] differently. And we always never
[378.9s] somewhat come to an agreement. But how
[382.1s] are we going to do this? How are we
[384.8s] going to to have an understanding as
[388.7s] Seventh Day Adventist? How are we going
[390.9s] to agree that you know this is actually
[393.7s] it? When the book of Daniel says this,
[396.2s] this is actually it. When the book of
[398.2s] revelation says this, this is actually
[400.6s] it. So uh this week we are going to
[403.4s] explore some principles that yield a
[406.0s] consistent and a reliable understanding
[408.8s] of prophecy. The aim is for us to
[411.8s] understand prophecy. So how can we do
[414.9s] it? And we go to our first lesson.
[418.0s] Whoever read let him understand which
[421.2s] has been derived from the book of
[423.4s] Matthew.
[425.2s] And Raph please help us understand
[428.6s] Matthew chapter 24:15. Whoever reads,
[431.7s] let him understand. Those are Jesus
[433.7s] words. Yes indeed. Uh Sunday speaks to
[436.6s] us as we kick off uh this uh quarters
[439.5s] lesson on the some of the principles of
[441.7s] Bible prophecy. The author on Sunday
[444.9s] simply is laboring to help us to
[447.4s] understand that Bible prophecy was
[450.5s] written with us in mind. Bible prophecy
[453.4s] is God trying to help us understand the
[456.1s] things that are going to happen and
[457.7s] therefore secure our our our faith and
[460.7s] anchor it in times of in times of
[462.9s] uncertainty, in times of darkness, in
[465.0s] times of trial. And so the example that
[467.8s] is given there is generally that if you
[469.7s] walk to any Christian bookshop or any
[472.2s] any particular bookshop of of religious
[475.5s] uh of a religious nature, you'll find a
[477.8s] lot of books uh on esquetologology about
[480.6s] the last day events and and the things
[482.9s] that are going to happen in the future.
[484.5s] And you find different authors with
[486.6s] different interpretations, different
[488.3s] books. And so the the the mind of a
[491.2s] reader or the mind of of of of the
[493.3s] inquisitor, this person who is doing
[495.3s] some research who wants to to understand
[497.3s] uh this particular concept may be led to
[499.9s] conclude that perhaps Bible prophecy is
[501.7s] very difficult because this author today
[503.6s] will say this then in in a different
[505.7s] edition they'd say oh I realized there
[507.4s] was a mistake and they have refined this
[509.0s] and even beyond uh one author changing
[511.8s] their mind several times you find
[514.0s] amongst multiple authors different
[515.6s] thoughts on the same ch subject and on
[517.4s] the same book and So it may be possible
[519.4s] that perhaps to a certain extent you we
[521.4s] may realize and say perhaps this subject
[523.3s] is difficult for people to understand
[525.4s] because various scholars from various um
[528.2s] from various backgrounds v various
[530.3s] theological outlooks and and and
[532.4s] philosophies coming up with their own
[534.5s] interpretations. But then the author
[537.8s] draws us to go back to the text itself.
[540.6s] For example, he he speaks to us about uh
[543.6s] some texts concerning Bible prophecy in
[546.3s] the Bible. And we see one theme uh that
[549.8s] runs through for example in the one that
[552.1s] uh gives us the heading from for Sunday
[555.5s] Matthew 24:15 speaking about the
[558.0s] abomination of the desolation spoken of
[559.8s] by the prophet Daniel and it says
[561.6s] whosoever reads let him do what? Let him
[563.9s] understand. So it's telling us that in
[565.8s] the mind of God he's made it easy. It is
[569.8s] within our capability. It is within the
[572.9s] realm of our understanding to not only
[575.9s] to read and to understand Bible
[578.0s] prophecy. In revelation chapter 1 and
[580.4s] verse three it's uh John writing about
[584.3s] the the prophecies of revelation. It
[586.0s] says whosoever do does what? Blessed is
[588.4s] he who does what? Who reads and beyond
[590.6s] that also does heareth and keepeth the
[593.6s] sayings of this book or of this
[595.5s] prophecy. in Matthew uh 11-29 same the
[600.4s] same and the same sentiment is there is
[603.3s] given that we need to understand we need
[606.0s] to understand we need to read we need to
[608.3s] and it's within our capabilities to
[610.6s] grasp and finally in Jeremiah uh chapter
[613.8s] 9 verse 23 and 24 it speaks about God is
[618.6s] saying if you're to glory as a Christian
[621.6s] glory in the following things that you
[623.9s] should glory that you understands. Let
[626.5s] him that glorious glorious in this that
[628.0s] he understandeth and knoweth knoweth me.
[630.6s] Understanding and knowing God. God is
[633.0s] saying simply his word in which he he he
[637.0s] proclaims himself is something that we
[639.1s] can understand and that we can know. And
[642.6s] so we
[644.1s] see
[646.0s] the the gist rather the heart of the
[649.2s] message on Sunday is that Bible prophecy
[652.5s] can be understood. Bible prophecy can we
[655.7s] can have there is a true north. It's not
[657.8s] we're not left uh everybody to their own
[660.7s] interpretation, everybody to their own
[662.6s] inklings but that the spirit of God has
[665.4s] laid out clear principles by which if we
[668.8s] follow then indeed we can know and we
[671.4s] can understand and it is required of us
[673.8s] to read and to understand. And so we are
[677.8s] finally towards the end it's it's we
[680.4s] we're told about um an instructor who
[684.9s] does not hear the voice of God speaking
[687.4s] while others can come to conclusions at
[689.8s] odds with the message of the Bible
[691.4s] simply because we do not follow the
[693.8s] principles that the Bible has given to
[696.2s] us you know and so what are some of the
[698.6s] things uh some of the things that we
[700.3s] need for example attitude uh the
[703.1s] attitude as you approach the Bible as a
[705.7s] living word of God. You know, without
[707.7s] being surrendered to the Lord and
[709.3s] without an open heart, open to learning
[711.6s] the truth, then those who read the Bible
[713.8s] will most likely come away with not only
[716.3s] missing its message, but also
[718.4s] misunderstanding the loving and the holy
[720.6s] character of God as he has revealed
[722.8s] himself in his in in in its pages. And
[725.3s] so there are many principles even uh as
[728.4s] we approach scripture, God himself says
[730.2s] he he he he reveals himself to those who
[733.7s] are humble and of a of a contrite heart
[736.2s] almost telling us the attitude which we
[737.9s] should approach scripture itself. You
[739.9s] see, and then he continues and says, "It
[741.7s] could be easier to do than many
[743.4s] realize." Which is why just reading the
[746.2s] Bible, but without the right tools and
[748.6s] most importantly the right attitude
[751.4s] under the guidance of the Holy Spirit
[753.6s] can actually be be quite hurtful and can
[756.3s] can mislead and one can find themselves
[759.5s] in error in interpretation. And so the
[762.7s] Bible and its prophecies, the Bible from
[765.1s] Genesis to Revelation, everything there
[767.4s] from the gospel to the prophecies can be
[769.5s] understood. And if we are to glory, let
[771.9s] us glory in this that we understand and
[774.0s] know God as he has revealed himself in
[776.0s] his word. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much,
[779.0s] Raph. That is powerful. Like when we are
[781.2s] reading the Bible, there are principles
[783.2s] to it. You do not come uh with your
[786.2s] knowledge to the Bible. You come empty.
[789.0s] You come as a child. It makes me just
[791.8s] wonder, no wonder Jesus was saying that
[794.1s] uh for us to make it to the kingdom of
[796.3s] heaven, we have to be like children. You
[798.9s] know, for children, whatever you tell
[800.8s] them, that is the truth. You know, so
[803.0s] for us, the Bible, whatever it tells us,
[805.4s] that is the truth. You're coming with
[807.1s] the attitude of learning from Christ and
[810.2s] under the guidance of the Holy Spirit
[812.6s] with a contrite and a humble heart. That
[815.0s] still brings me to a question. Um just
[818.6s] the people when they read the Bible
[820.6s] they're looking for loopholes you know
[823.0s] they're looking for that loophole uh
[826.2s] this passage yes it is okay but there's
[829.0s] something missing what is the problem w
[831.5s] with that attitude actually the Bible
[834.6s] warns us of a people like that in the
[837.3s] book of um 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 God
[840.2s] gives a prophetic message and he talks
[843.1s] about a people who will come to the word
[845.0s] of God who do not love the truth truth
[847.2s] and are not seeking for the truth in the
[849.0s] word of God. And God gives us uh gives
[851.6s] them a warning. Um in verse 10, it reads
[854.3s] and says, "And with all deceivleness of
[856.6s] unrighteousness in them that perish
[859.4s] because they received not the love of
[862.4s] the truth that they might be saved."
[865.1s] What did God do? God allowed them. For
[867.8s] this cause God shall send them strong
[870.7s] delusion that they should believe a lie.
[874.2s] that they all might be damned who
[876.2s] believed not the truth but had pleasure
[879.0s] in unrighteousness. Those who come there
[881.4s] seeking for loopholes to especially
[883.4s] actually most people want to support
[885.4s] their unrighteousness want to support
[887.5s] their lifestyle. God says you're looking
[889.9s] for a lie. I will actually allow I will
[893.0s] permit you to find a lie. And how God
[897.0s] will allow the devil to come and deceive
[899.3s] you. We need to understand that the
[902.0s] Bible is a book about God. You know, a
[904.8s] part of the Bible would ask um and say
[907.6s] who can by searching find him out. That
[910.7s] his knowledge is even too big for us to
[913.5s] be able to fully find him out. And if we
[916.2s] understand that the Bible is a book
[917.9s] about him, then we come humbly with an
[920.6s] attitude of like, Lord, teach me, teach
[923.7s] me. If you come with an attitude of I
[926.2s] know better, I will come and find
[928.2s] loopholes. you will definitely find
[930.1s] loopholes and God says I will allow you
[932.9s] to actually be deceived and you will
[936.0s] believe a lie. Amen. Amen. So I think
[939.8s] it's a question of how do you want to
[942.0s] read the Bible? Do you want to be
[943.6s] deceived or do you want actually to know
[946.7s] the truth? And the Bible says that you
[948.9s] shall know the truth and the truth shall
[950.6s] do what shall set you free. So do you
[952.8s] want to be set free? We want to just uh
[955.8s] continue in that uh cycle of looking for
[958.8s] loopholes because you'll find them if
[960.6s] you're looking for them. And now we move
[962.6s] to the second uh part. We we've moved
[965.8s] from whoever is let him understand and
[969.2s] we just coming to realize that actually
[971.4s] God wants to be understood. Uh Jafet
[974.2s] please take us through that.
[976.6s] Yes, in fact God does indeed want to be
[978.9s] understood. I think we have seen that
[980.6s] the text the scriptures are
[982.9s] comprehensible. Uh brother Rafael has
[985.0s] really explained that quite clearly. God
[987.4s] himself is communicating something to
[989.3s] his people. God is communicating
[991.3s] specific messages to his people in his
[993.5s] word. But there's something that we have
[995.5s] to appreciate. Um uh there's normally
[998.3s] this issue that you and I can sometimes
[1000.2s] have uh friend of communication you know
[1003.7s] um we're in a country you know like we
[1005.9s] we all speak some some English okay but
[1008.5s] sometimes the others you go to some
[1009.9s] places someone speaks their own u mother
[1012.4s] tongue and language and there's a
[1013.7s] difficulty or a barrier of communication
[1015.8s] and this can hinder uh our our desire to
[1018.9s] move forward on an issue. uh this same
[1021.8s] thing applies to God but not God towards
[1024.5s] us but us towards God because God fully
[1028.1s] is able to comprehend and understand
[1029.6s] everything about us but because of the
[1031.9s] vastness of God and there are some
[1033.4s] verses I would like us to go through we
[1035.5s] appreciate before moving forward that
[1038.0s] God is understanding 100% of God is
[1042.2s] impossible in the book of Psalms chapter
[1044.9s] 139 uh verse 1 to verse 6 David himself
[1049.0s] is saying the Lord H you have searched
[1052.0s] me and known me. Verse one, you have
[1054.2s] known my sitting down and my rising up.
[1056.7s] Verse four, it says there is not a word
[1058.7s] in my tongue. Uh but l you you know it
[1061.6s] all. Verse five, it says that God has
[1063.8s] compassed David fully. Verse six, in
[1066.1s] fact is actually the lynch pin. It says
[1068.2s] such knowledge is too wonderful for me.
[1070.4s] It is high. I cannot attain unto you.
[1072.8s] That God's understanding of us is so
[1074.6s] complete that his understanding of us
[1076.6s] even exceeds our own understanding of
[1079.0s] ourselves. Again in Psalm
[1081.9s] 147:E5 you find the same idea that God's
[1085.4s] understanding is infinite. Great is our
[1087.9s] Lord of great power. His understanding
[1090.5s] is infinite. In the book of Romans, Paul
[1092.6s] himself tells us that God's
[1095.5s] understanding the depths of his
[1097.0s] knowledge are unsearchable. It is not
[1099.2s] possible to for us to try and comprehend
[1101.4s] full things or everything about God. It
[1104.0s] is not possible. It says even there are
[1106.5s] some things on earth right now that we
[1108.8s] don't understand fully. There are fields
[1110.7s] of physics and chemistry and and science
[1113.1s] the the cutting edge where people have
[1115.5s] I've accepted that they don't
[1117.0s] understand. I was personally for my own
[1119.4s] um studies trying to understand a
[1121.4s] particular topic of physics called
[1122.8s] quantum physics and on the first lecture
[1125.4s] the lecturer himself said I want you to
[1128.4s] understand that I don't understand
[1129.8s] quantum physics fully and at the very
[1132.2s] end of this lecture series you will come
[1134.6s] to understanding that you are like me
[1136.2s] that you also don't understand it fully
[1138.3s] now imagine of of these earthly things
[1141.1s] that their experts of experts have come
[1143.7s] to understanding that they don't
[1144.9s] understand fully how much more the god
[1146.8s] who is the author author of all
[1148.5s] creation. Surely understanding him
[1150.5s] should be even less than than complete
[1153.2s] um of the natural world. So it is it is
[1155.7s] almost a humility that um our brother
[1157.8s] Rafel was talking about. It almost sets
[1160.1s] upon the mind a humility that I can't
[1162.6s] understand all things but there is
[1165.3s] something I can understand. I don't want
[1167.1s] us to live with you know almost a
[1170.0s] hopeless approach. It is that a
[1172.4s] appreciating God's infinite knowledge is
[1174.6s] there to help have humility enter into
[1177.0s] our hearts so that we can go to the
[1178.7s] study of the word of God with a humble
[1180.6s] and a contrite spirit. Why is that?
[1183.8s] Because even if we can't understand
[1185.9s] everything about God, there are some
[1187.9s] things that God is communicating to us.
[1190.4s] When Paul was speaking to Timothy in the
[1192.6s] book of 2 Timothy chapter
[1195.2s] 34-15, Paul was telling Timothy that as
[1198.2s] a child there were things that he was
[1200.2s] able to fully understand. 2 Timothy
[1202.2s] 3:14:15 for uh but continue in the
[1205.0s] things which you have learned and have
[1207.0s] been assured of knowing of them you have
[1210.1s] knowing of whom you have learned them
[1212.6s] and that from a child you are you have
[1214.4s] known the holy scriptures which are able
[1216.6s] to make you wise unto salvation through
[1219.2s] faith faith which is in Christ Jesus so
[1222.1s] that there are things that we can
[1223.6s] understand and chiefly matters to do
[1226.5s] with our salvation in the book of Isaiah
[1229.4s] 1:18 when God is interacting with
[1231.8s] Israel. He has listed all the sins of
[1234.3s] Israel. He has told Israel, "Your sin
[1236.9s] from the head of your your your your
[1239.1s] from the top of your head to the bottom
[1240.7s] of of of the sole of your foot is
[1242.7s] entirely sinful." He says verse 18,
[1245.0s] "Come, let us reason together." There is
[1247.7s] something God wants us to know about him
[1250.6s] regarding our salvation and how best we
[1253.4s] can walk with him. when when Moses who
[1256.6s] was communicating on God's behalf in the
[1258.8s] book of Deuteronomy chapter 30 when he
[1260.8s] had listed all the curses that would
[1263.0s] come upon Israel once they had forsaken
[1265.2s] the Lord in fact you should take time to
[1267.1s] study Deuteronomy chapter 28 in
[1269.0s] Deuteronomy chapter 30 what does God say
[1272.1s] God say through Moses verse 11 to verse
[1275.1s] 14 um God says through Moses that the
[1278.5s] commandment that God has given through
[1280.6s] Moses to us is not some mystical thing
[1283.8s] is not some incomprehensible thing. The
[1285.8s] commands, the things God wants us to do.
[1288.2s] He says verse 12, it is not in heaven
[1291.0s] that you shall ask who shall go up to
[1292.7s] heaven to find it. Or verse 13, it's not
[1295.4s] beyond the sea that's that you must soj
[1298.2s] to a far away land to find it. Verse 14,
[1301.0s] he says, "But the word is nigh unto you.
[1303.7s] It is in your mouth. It is in your very
[1305.7s] heart." So that Moses was actually
[1308.1s] speaking and saying what the words with
[1311.0s] regard to our how we should live our
[1313.2s] lives are actually God has revealed
[1315.1s] these things to us. In fact Paul himself
[1317.5s] referencing this text in the book of
[1319.5s] Romans chapter 10. I believe it's Romans
[1322.0s] chapter 10 reading from verse 6 to verse
[1324.6s] 8. Now he says that word in fact is the
[1327.5s] gospel. It's so that there are things
[1329.8s] that God wants us to understand. Those
[1332.2s] things have to do with our salvation.
[1334.2s] viewer, my friend. I really hope that
[1336.3s] you appreciate this, that you can take
[1339.2s] time to study with regard to your
[1341.2s] salvation, your walk with the Lord, and
[1343.4s] you can surely be convinced that you
[1345.9s] will surely understand God's path and
[1348.0s] God's desire for you in your life. Yeah.
[1351.0s] Amen. Thank you so much, Chap. Uh thank
[1353.8s] you for just helping us understand that
[1356.1s] God wants to be understood. Like it's an
[1358.9s] open kind of communication. God doesn't
[1361.4s] have communication issues. He's actually
[1364.8s] very elaborate. He's very clear. And
[1367.6s] just to prove that, I'll read the book
[1369.4s] of first John chapter 5 verse uh verse
[1373.8s] three. For this is the love of God that
[1376.1s] we keep his commandments and his
[1378.6s] commandments are not burdensome. So it
[1382.0s] is not God is not asking you to
[1384.6s] understand physics. God is asking you to
[1388.6s] understand the very things that he has
[1390.8s] given you in the in his word and he's
[1394.2s] saying these things are not hard as you
[1396.7s] think please just have humility ask the
[1400.3s] holy spirit for guidance and you'll be
[1402.7s] able to understand and that brings me to
[1404.7s] a question Raph and sometimes we tend to
[1408.6s] focus on the things that we do not
[1410.8s] understand so how how should this help
[1414.2s] us that this God's wrath has told that
[1417.3s] told us that the commandments of God are
[1419.4s] not burden some that these things can
[1421.4s] actually be understood that actually God
[1423.4s] wants to do what to be understood. So
[1425.7s] how is it crucial for us to focus on
[1428.2s] what we know and leave that which we do
[1431.8s] not know and stop obsessing over what we
[1434.6s] do not know. I think um as we shall see
[1439.3s] also later on in the
[1441.0s] lesson, the some the the way God works
[1445.0s] is such that he gives you more than
[1447.2s] enough. Such that that which is known
[1449.9s] compared to that which is not known,
[1452.5s] that which is known is sufficient for
[1454.6s] your faith. That which is known is
[1456.4s] sufficient to to to to calm your nerves
[1459.4s] and to answer all your questions. And so
[1461.8s] sometimes if we obsess on the dark on
[1464.6s] the dark on the on the darker sides of
[1467.0s] of of of of
[1468.2s] of some faith questions, you know, uh
[1472.2s] and and then also even that which is
[1474.2s] known itself gives us hope of one day
[1478.2s] understanding that which is not known.
[1480.6s] So you see
[1482.0s] um there's an aspect of where now we
[1484.6s] also have to approach it and apply faith
[1487.5s] because if we are to understand
[1489.1s] everything then it it stops being faith
[1492.4s] starts being science because now we've
[1494.6s] understood oh this is x y z and this and
[1498.0s] that but so we are given enough evidence
[1501.7s] by which on which to make decisions
[1503.8s] sufficient evidence of the love of god
[1506.0s] sufficient evidence of his presence
[1507.7s] sufficient evidence of his interest and
[1510.6s] and of his of his plan for our
[1512.5s] salvation. And the all of these they'll
[1515.8s] still you still have questions
[1516.8s] especially sometimes and often the the
[1518.7s] the things in which we have questions
[1521.0s] more often than not sometimes tend to be
[1523.0s] individualized and personal. They're not
[1525.0s] necessarily corporate only in a few
[1526.7s] issues in which you'll find almost all
[1528.7s] Christianom cannot answer a particular
[1531.4s] issue. But more often than not sometimes
[1533.1s] the nuances of of of faith the dark
[1535.6s] regions of faith are are personal. you
[1539.0s] know the way certain aspects of your
[1541.1s] life how these things happen. If God is
[1543.0s] truly loving then why did X Y and Zed
[1545.1s] happen to me? You know why did uh why
[1547.4s] didn't this and that happen? But then
[1549.6s] that which God has revealed that which
[1551.7s] is known also promises us that when the
[1554.5s] trumpet of the Lord shall sound and
[1556.3s] indeed this mortal shall put on
[1558.0s] immortality that which is known shall
[1560.4s] meet together with that which is unknown
[1562.0s] and we shall know as we are known and we
[1564.6s] shall see him as he is. Amen. Amen.
[1567.8s] There's a day everything will be laid
[1569.9s] bare for us. But until then, let us hold
[1573.5s] on to the hope of that which we have
[1576.0s] understood and proceed without faith,
[1579.3s] without the compliance, without thinking
[1581.9s] that now you're not ignoring that which
[1584.9s] you do not know but you're just having
[1586.6s] faith like Rafael has told us that if I
[1589.0s] have understood this surely I will also
[1591.6s] understood that which is a bit hard for
[1593.9s] now. Ah yes we move to Daniel 12:4 and
[1599.1s] God is saying very interesting words to
[1601.7s] Daniel. Daniel shut up the words. I've
[1605.2s] tried to read it in a way that it's not
[1608.0s] rude. So please tell us about why is God
[1611.8s] telling Daniel to shut up the words. You
[1614.7s] know it's interesting especially because
[1616.3s] we are coming from
[1618.6s] uh that topic of God wants to be
[1621.4s] understood and then he says okay this
[1623.7s] part please close it we are not going to
[1626.7s] interpret it. Um maybe actually maybe to
[1630.1s] just open that um a thought just come
[1632.2s] has come to my mind in the book of
[1633.9s] second Peter
[1636.5s] um second Peter Peter is speaking about
[1640.0s] his experience with Christ Jesus in
[1642.7s] chapter one and he's speaking about how
[1645.5s] God honestly truly wanted to be
[1647.4s] understood to the extent that when
[1649.6s] people had fully misunderstood who he
[1652.1s] was he said I will come down myself so
[1655.1s] that I can reveal myself to you And
[1657.8s] Peter says that we were eyewitnesses of
[1661.0s] this. We saw him f elsewhere in first
[1663.8s] John 1:1. John says that we even touched
[1666.7s] him. We experienced him. We heard him.
[1670.2s] We were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
[1673.4s] That is what Peter says in chapter 1
[1676.2s] verse 16. But then in verse 19, he says
[1679.0s] something that's very interesting. And
[1680.6s] he says besides all this, besides even
[1683.4s] our personal experience with him,
[1685.0s] besides even the very because God wanted
[1687.1s] to be so much understood that he came,
[1689.3s] there's something better that God has
[1692.2s] given to us to even understand him much
[1695.0s] more. In the book of second Peter, he
[1697.9s] tells us what that is. In verse 19, he
[1699.8s] says, "But even after all this, we have
[1702.9s] also a more sure word of prophecy, where
[1707.9s] unto you do well that you take heed as
[1711.0s] unto a light that shineth in the dark
[1713.6s] place until the day dawn and the day
[1716.4s] star arise in your hearts." And he says,
[1719.0s] "Knowing this first that no prophecy of
[1721.2s] the scripture is of any private
[1723.4s] interpretation, that there's one
[1724.9s] interpretation of the prophetic word."
[1727.5s] And when we come to the book of Daniel,
[1729.4s] which is a prophetic book filled with
[1731.8s] symbols, filled with um um um imagery,
[1735.8s] filled with things that look very
[1737.7s] difficult for the human mind to
[1739.5s] understand, written differently. You
[1741.2s] know, other books of the Bible, even
[1743.7s] even when they are prophetic, they are
[1746.5s] written in a very literal way. You can
[1749.1s] understand say, "Oh, Babylon will come
[1750.8s] take you over, you know, you people will
[1753.0s] go over to another land of captivity for
[1755.4s] 70 years." Other prophets prophesied in
[1758.3s] a very literal way but not so with
[1761.0s] Daniel and also not so with John the
[1762.9s] revelator. They used symbols. They used
[1765.3s] a lot of imagery and and and all this
[1769.1s] God has given it to us saying that this
[1771.6s] is a more sure word of prophecy that
[1773.5s] even in me giving it to you. However,
[1775.8s] maybe sometimes it might look weird or
[1778.7s] or or words that you don't interact with
[1781.0s] every day. I've given it to you because
[1783.1s] I want you to understand it is a more
[1785.6s] sure word of my revelation of myself of
[1789.1s] myself. And in Daniel 12:4, Daniel has
[1792.7s] been seeing a lot of visions um um
[1795.4s] through the book of Daniel. And in the
[1797.0s] last in the in the in in in in in the
[1799.6s] last chapter after he's shown a
[1802.1s] particular vision um in the last chapter
[1804.6s] in verse four the Bible says but thou oh
[1806.8s] Daniel shut up the words and seal the
[1809.2s] book even to the time of the end many
[1811.9s] shall run to and fro and and knowledge
[1815.1s] shall be
[1816.3s] increased which is contrasted very well
[1819.1s] with Revelation chapter 22 but I will
[1821.3s] read that shortly maybe to just clarify
[1824.2s] what is what is this that is being seen
[1826.6s] here. Of course, we know it is not
[1828.5s] Daniel chapter 2. Why? Daniel chapter 2
[1830.8s] was already interpreted. It's not the
[1832.5s] whole book of Daniel. We also know it is
[1835.2s] not Daniel chapter 7 because Daniel
[1837.3s] comes and tells us who are the beasts
[1838.8s] and when they will arise and he talks
[1841.0s] about them. But there's a very
[1842.6s] particular vision that Daniel receives
[1845.2s] in Daniel 8:14 especially. And he he he
[1850.3s] himself when he sees it he becomes so
[1853.5s] stressed that he collapses and for
[1857.3s] months and weeks he's praying and he
[1860.1s] prays and prays for months never
[1862.2s] understanding this and God comes and
[1864.6s] gives him the interpretation. And when
[1867.2s] Christ gives him the interpretation
[1869.2s] there's one part of the prophecy
[1871.3s] connected to the 2300 days and the
[1873.6s] judgment of the end that was still not
[1876.5s] clarified to him. And this prophecy was
[1880.0s] never revealed. Its understanding was
[1882.0s] never given in the book of Daniel. And
[1883.8s] that is the little portion of the book
[1885.9s] of Daniel that is closed. And we are
[1888.2s] told that will be understood. God says,
[1890.6s] "I really want to be understood, but it
[1892.4s] will be understood when when the time
[1894.7s] comes at the time of the end." In the
[1897.7s] book of Revelation chapter 10, we see
[1900.2s] Christ standing
[1902.4s] um between the land and the sea. And he
[1904.9s] rises up he raises up a little book that
[1907.8s] little book that was closed in the book
[1909.8s] of Daniel. Uh in the book of Daniel 12
[1913.5s] we see Christ now standing up and we are
[1916.1s] told that this little book that had been
[1918.5s] closed is now what in Daniel Revelation
[1921.6s] 10:2 we see the little book is open. So
[1925.1s] we do know that the time of the end now
[1927.1s] when Christ is rising up during the time
[1929.3s] of the sixth trumpet the book has been
[1931.6s] opened and re revelation chapter 22
[1934.4s] makes it clear if there is any doubt
[1936.7s] makes it clear what the portion of the
[1939.3s] prophecy that was that was closed what
[1941.7s] it pertained to in Revelation 22 10 the
[1945.4s] Bible says and he saith unto me you see
[1948.8s] it was sealed in the book of Daniel now
[1951.6s] please do not seal it say the This do
[1955.0s] not seal seal not the sayings of the
[1957.0s] prophecy of this book. Why? For the time
[1959.8s] is at hand. In Daniel chapter 12, the
[1962.1s] time had not yet come. But now the time
[1965.1s] is at hand. And then verse 11 connects
[1968.2s] us directly to tell us why this book was
[1971.8s] not the whole book of Daniel but that
[1973.6s] little portion of the book of Daniel
[1976.1s] regarding the judgment. He says he that
[1978.2s] is unjust let him be unjust. We know the
[1980.3s] people will be judged. So that those who
[1982.1s] will be unjust let them be unjust. Those
[1983.9s] who will be filthy, let those who will
[1985.4s] be righteous, let them be righteous. To
[1987.0s] tell us that it is the portion of the
[1989.0s] book related to the judgment and the
[1991.0s] 2300 day prophecy that was sealed in the
[1994.3s] book of Daniel. That was the portion
[1996.2s] that God had sealed. But he wants to be
[1998.3s] so much understood that during its time
[2001.4s] um he reveals himself and the verse is
[2004.1s] very interesting. It says that in those
[2006.3s] last days know many shall run to and fro
[2010.9s] and knowledge shall be increased. You
[2013.2s] know many people usually think of this
[2014.6s] as
[2015.5s] saying let me tell you we will
[2017.8s] understand science. You see this AI
[2020.2s] development. Uhhuh. It is what God
[2022.3s] prophesied in Daniel chapter 12. See how
[2024.9s] knowledge is increasing. You see if
[2026.9s] anything I think we are we are going
[2028.7s] back. You know my husband and I were
[2030.5s] talking about discoveries in physics.
[2033.0s] There have not been major big
[2034.4s] discoveries in physics for many years.
[2037.2s] Even though people think knowledge is
[2038.6s] increasing but the particular knowledge
[2041.0s] spoken of here it is the knowledge of
[2043.4s] the word of God. How do we know this? In
[2046.4s] the book of Amos I will not read but you
[2048.8s] can note it down. In the book of um Amos
[2052.5s] we see people running to and fro running
[2056.6s] to and fro looking for the knowledge of
[2058.9s] God. Roma Amos 8:12 they they are
[2062.9s] running to and fro and it is very
[2064.7s] specific in Amos says they go back and
[2067.0s] forth looking for the word of God
[2069.1s] they're not looking for AI they're not
[2070.7s] looking for signs it is the word of God
[2072.8s] that they run to and look for but God
[2075.3s] promises that in the last days when this
[2077.4s] book is opened it shall finally be
[2081.0s] revealed and it will be understood and
[2083.8s] you know it's interesting actually to
[2085.8s] again maybe to emphasize that it's not
[2087.9s] the whole book of Daniel that was closed
[2089.9s] but it's just that little portion you
[2091.9s] know in the third century we had people
[2094.2s] who had inter the same interpretations
[2096.2s] we have of seventh day adventist they
[2098.6s] had them already a man called Hippolyas
[2101.0s] had already had those interpretations of
[2103.4s] of of and understood who who who who who
[2107.0s] are those beasts and they had clear
[2109.6s] interpretations and even way before
[2112.4s] William Miller um gave us the
[2114.6s] interpretation or rather not gave us but
[2116.6s] rather publicized the interpretation of
[2119.0s] the 2300 day prophecy at the time of the
[2122.0s] end. We had people when God had brought
[2124.5s] the time of the end very close. We had
[2127.2s] um a man who was um a a a pastor in the
[2130.6s] Calvinist church, a German pastor in the
[2132.6s] Calvinist church in the 1768 close to
[2135.3s] the time of the end which is 1798 and he
[2138.5s] was already teaching on the uh dayear
[2141.2s] principle and interpreting 2300 day
[2143.6s] prophecy even way before William Miller.
[2145.7s] We had a man called Daniel Witby again
[2148.4s] using the dayy year principle and
[2150.3s] interpreting um uh the 2300 day
[2153.0s] prophecy. So we can see from 1798 the
[2155.8s] knowledge was increased not just with
[2157.5s] William Miller but many other people
[2159.3s] from different parts of the world
[2161.2s] studied and this knowledge of the time
[2163.7s] of the end of the book that was closed
[2165.8s] the portion that was closed was finally
[2168.2s] being understood why God wanted us to
[2171.3s] know him and to understand him even when
[2174.0s] we are confused about judgment he wanted
[2175.8s] us to understand him and to know him
[2177.8s] through prophecy.
[2180.2s] Amen. Thank you Jess. Thank you. Really
[2183.6s] um when Daniel was being told to sh shut
[2187.7s] up the words, it was not yet time. And
[2190.6s] as the Bible says, when it is time, he
[2193.4s] makes things he makes things beautiful,
[2196.2s] right? It's in the book of Isaiah. So,
[2198.6s] it's not just about God blessing us, but
[2201.2s] it is also blessing us in terms of his
[2203.6s] word. And I can relate to what Jess is
[2206.5s] saying. There's so much knowledge.
[2208.4s] People know so much at the moment.
[2210.4s] People know AI, how to use it, how to
[2213.5s] manipulate it. People know how to talk
[2216.4s] about therapy language. You're just
[2218.6s] having a conversation, then someone is
[2220.2s] telling you that's manipulating, that's
[2222.2s] guilt tripping, you know, but like Jess
[2225.1s] has told us uh it's not about the
[2228.4s] worldly knowledge, but it is about the
[2230.7s] God's word. God's knowledge. So really,
[2233.5s] God wants to be understood and as we go
[2236.5s] on, we'll be able to understood. So we
[2239.0s] be able to understand so much that we've
[2240.8s] not been able to even get a glimpse of
[2244.6s] so long as we remember to be humble to
[2248.5s] ask the guidance of the Holy Spirit and
[2251.2s] have the right attitude when reading the
[2253.4s] Bible which brings us to studying the
[2255.9s] word the Wednesday part and you'll be
[2257.8s] led by Raph. All right. So uh Wednesday
[2262.5s] is talking about studying the word and
[2264.7s] uh the aim of Wednesday is simply to
[2267.3s] give us some pointers
[2269.8s] uh enable to to enable us to have a more
[2273.6s] accurate interaction with the word of
[2275.5s] God. And uh and one of the mentions
[2279.6s] there is made of a gentleman that um
[2282.4s] Jess has mentioned uh called William
[2284.6s] Miller who came up as you've seen uh
[2287.2s] amongst many others in that around that
[2289.4s] time when there was a revival and an
[2291.1s] interest in the second coming of Christ
[2293.1s] and they came up with various principles
[2295.2s] that they used to interpret Bible
[2297.4s] scripture. Some of them were wrong but
[2299.8s] generally in essence these men and women
[2302.9s] laid down the foundations some of the
[2305.4s] keys by which then many generations
[2307.9s] subsequent generations have used their
[2309.4s] methods uh and and and and have been
[2312.3s] able to understand Bible prophecy uh in
[2314.6s] a much better way. But then let us look
[2316.9s] at scripture itself. What does this what
[2318.7s] does what does what does scripture say
[2320.7s] about the word of God? What does
[2322.6s] scripture say about studying God's word?
[2324.6s] We'll turn to the book of Matthew
[2326.2s] chapter 5 and 18. And the Bible records
[2328.6s] and and Christ himself says the
[2330.3s] following in verse 17. He begins and
[2332.9s] says, "Think not that I am come to
[2334.6s] destroy the law or the prophets. I am
[2337.5s] not come to destroy but to fulfill."
[2339.9s] See, Christ himself is saying he's he
[2342.3s] he's coming and is in agreement with
[2344.6s] both the law and the and the prophets.
[2347.0s] Then he says in verse 18, for verily I
[2349.8s] say unto you, till heaven and earth
[2352.3s] pass, not one jot or one tit shall in no
[2356.3s] wise pass from the law till it all be
[2359.6s] fulfilled. So it's telling us that
[2361.6s] Christ himself takes Bible prophecy
[2363.6s] seriously and uh by extension the law of
[2367.3s] God. And so when we are studying God's
[2369.9s] word, then we should be mindful not only
[2371.8s] of his law but also of what the prophets
[2374.5s] have written. Of what the prophets have
[2376.4s] written because Christ says if you are
[2379.3s] to compare his life then you will find
[2381.5s] that his life is in keeping with what
[2383.0s] the prophets have written and also what
[2385.1s] the law of God requires. Not even one
[2388.3s] jot or title shall pass away until it is
[2391.5s] all fulfilled. In 2 Timothy, a text
[2394.0s] which Japth has alluded to us also in 2
[2396.7s] Timothy chapter 3:15-17,
[2399.4s] uh Paul writing to Timothy writes and
[2401.0s] says the following. And that from a
[2402.6s] child thou hast known the holy
[2404.6s] scriptures, not just any writings, but
[2407.8s] the holy scriptures which are able to
[2410.3s] make thee wise unto salvation through
[2413.4s] faith which is in Christ. Who? Which is
[2415.9s] in Christ Jesus. tells us that the
[2418.1s] words, the holy scriptures, the Bible,
[2420.6s] the word of God is important and is
[2423.1s] vital that it is able to make us wise
[2426.3s] unto salvation. If you want to know the
[2429.6s] way of salvation, we must study the
[2432.2s] Bible and we must study it appropriately
[2435.3s] and it and we must also apply what faith
[2438.9s] which is where in Christ Jesus. A
[2441.4s] question I always like us when we read
[2444.2s] the word of God to be mindful when Paul
[2447.7s] is writing to Timothy is saying you have
[2450.6s] known the holy scriptures in essence
[2453.4s] Paul is referring to the old testament
[2455.4s] because it is the old testament that was
[2457.9s] the scripture back then when they're
[2459.9s] talking about the scripture when Christ
[2461.3s] himself is saying you study study the
[2463.8s] word you know study the scriptures in
[2465.7s] essence is asking us to consider the
[2468.2s] books of Genesis all the way to
[2470.4s] Zechariah Mariah because these are the
[2472.8s] men and women who later on now
[2474.4s] contributed to the New Testament. So
[2476.3s] Paul is telling this young man Timothy
[2479.2s] to study the prophecies of the Old
[2482.4s] Testament to study the the writings of
[2484.8s] the Old Testament and to and and and in
[2486.7s] considering them he'll be able to find
[2489.5s] salvation. Yet we find that most people
[2492.0s] today speak of salvation as being a New
[2494.2s] Testament thing. You know like salvation
[2496.6s] is only found we are in the new
[2498.2s] dispensation the dispensation of grace
[2500.7s] and of and and and of all these things
[2502.7s] but Paul whose writings we use to say
[2505.9s] we're in this new dispensation in is
[2508.9s] talking to Timothy and to all Timothies
[2511.4s] uh who came after the original Timothy
[2513.3s] who is us as Christians to study the
[2515.8s] holy scriptures and he continues and
[2517.6s] says all scripture is given by
[2520.2s] inspiration of God and is profitable for
[2524.2s] doctrine. And once again in Matthew we
[2526.6s] were told not even one jot or title. Now
[2530.2s] Paul is saying all scripture scripture
[2532.4s] in its
[2533.5s] entirety you know and and we shouldn't
[2536.6s] need uh pick and choose you know ah this
[2540.2s] seems like an old testament thing this
[2542.0s] seems a this seems this and that. But
[2545.4s] Paul is speaking to us and says all
[2548.1s] scripture is given by inspiration of God
[2551.0s] and that it is profitable for doctrine,
[2553.4s] for reproof, for correction, for
[2556.2s] instruction in righteousness. And in
[2558.3s] verse 17, he says that the man of God
[2561.1s] may be perfect, thoroughly furnished
[2564.1s] unto all good works. Reasons why we
[2568.2s] should study the word of God. continues
[2571.0s] and we're now called to consider in the
[2573.8s] book of Luke Luke chapter 24 and verse
[2577.1s] 27 and it says the following that after
[2580.7s] the this is the walk to a mouse and
[2584.2s] Christ has resurrected and there's a new
[2587.3s] person who's entering into Jerusalem and
[2589.0s] he doesn't know the story of the
[2590.1s] crucifixion and of and and and and and
[2592.6s] of the happenings and now the Bible
[2595.0s] records that
[2596.8s] now Christ himself is explaining to them
[2599.4s] and in verse Vers 27 he says almost
[2601.4s] mirroring what is was he said in Matthew
[2603.4s] 5 and 18 not one jotto title until it is
[2607.0s] fulfilled in verse 27 Christ is
[2609.3s] explaining to this person and he says
[2612.0s] beginning at Moses and all the prophets
[2615.8s] not some of the prophets all the
[2617.9s] prophets he expounded unto them all the
[2622.2s] scriptures the things unto them in all
[2626.2s] the scriptures the things concerning
[2629.0s] himself self. And so we see the Bible
[2631.7s] prophecy isn't simply the reserve of
[2634.0s] Daniel. That the Bible prophecy isn't
[2637.0s] simply the reserve of maybe in now in
[2639.8s] the New Testament only of the book of
[2641.8s] Revelation, but we can find um one
[2645.3s] single line of
[2646.9s] thought in Isaiah 28 and:e 13 that would
[2651.4s] interest us to read when we are looking
[2653.2s] at studying God's word. Isaiah writes
[2655.4s] and says the following. But the word of
[2657.1s] the Lord was unto them percept upon
[2659.6s] percept, percept upon percept, line upon
[2662.6s] line, here a little and there a little.
[2665.9s] That God's word is like a jigsaw puzzle.
[2668.7s] And so for us to appreciate its
[2670.8s] entirety, we must consider scripture in
[2673.5s] its entirety. Also, the example that the
[2676.3s] author of uh of of of the Wednesday
[2678.8s] lesson also speaks to us, it's like a
[2680.8s] puzzle that has a landscape, a farm and
[2683.4s] animals. You know, if you if you feel
[2686.0s] this jigsaw puzzle and stop halfway,
[2688.8s] you'll say perhaps it's a puzzle of a
[2690.3s] donkey, you know, but if you continue,
[2692.2s] you realize there other animals and oh,
[2694.6s] beyond it them being animals, it's a
[2696.3s] farm. There are plants. Beyond it being
[2697.9s] a farm, there's it's a city and there's
[2700.2s] even a mountain range in in in in in in
[2703.2s] the background. And so God's word must
[2706.3s] be taken in its entirety. It must be
[2708.6s] taken in its entirety. Similarly also
[2711.7s] when we approaching studying God's word
[2714.2s] we must also be wary of
[2717.7s] forming an idea or a whole theology on
[2721.4s] one text. We must also look at the
[2724.2s] weight of evidence. You know for example
[2726.2s] on the state of the dead there are those
[2727.8s] example where in the in the in the new
[2730.1s] testament where Christ gives example of
[2732.1s] Lazarus the rich man and Lazarus and
[2733.7s] also somewhere in the writings of Paul
[2735.5s] Paul says when Christ died he went into
[2738.6s] pition you know and he he there are some
[2740.9s] souls that he delivered and some people
[2742.8s] say use that text to speak about
[2745.0s] purgatory you know but if we were to
[2747.7s] look at line upon line here a little and
[2750.1s] there little if you to look at the
[2751.4s] jigsaw puzzle in its entirety then we
[2753.7s] know the true state of the dead that the
[2755.7s] dead are dead. You know, there is no uh
[2758.2s] halfway house on your way to heaven or
[2760.2s] on your way to hell, you know. And uh
[2762.3s] once we are dead, we are waiting. We are
[2764.1s] waiting for the resurrection and for the
[2766.1s] judgment. And so we see um the weight of
[2769.4s] evidence. We must we must look at all
[2771.7s] scripture and not isolated texts. All
[2774.2s] scripture and not isolated text. And
[2776.5s] even the text in itself, we shouldn't
[2778.4s] isolate it. You know, the text should
[2780.7s] also be appreciated in context. you know
[2784.0s] understand the setting with which Christ
[2786.6s] was giving the story of the rich man and
[2788.6s] Lazarus you know instead of forming
[2790.6s] forming a whole theology we must look at
[2793.8s] it in its context also so contextually
[2796.9s] and also on the weight of evidence and
[2799.6s] this is very important not in order to
[2802.4s] enable us not to fall into the trap of
[2804.6s] selecting specific test texts on a
[2807.0s] particular topic instead of looking at
[2810.2s] the Bible carefully in context and with
[2813.4s] the weight of evidence.
[2816.1s] Amen. Thank you. Uh Raph has also even
[2819.0s] helped us to to just answer the question
[2822.7s] of what is our experience with those who
[2826.5s] only use certain Bible verses to prove
[2831.3s] their points. And if you look carefully,
[2833.5s] these are the same people who read the
[2835.0s] Bible to look for loopholes. So they
[2837.6s] also use certain like, you know, you've
[2840.1s] met this verse and you're proving a
[2842.0s] point. That's not how the Bible should
[2844.4s] be read. The Bible should be read in its
[2848.0s] like in its completeness, you know, and
[2851.0s] it answers itself. Um, time is far much
[2854.2s] spent, but we still have the Thursday
[2856.4s] part where we talk about figurative or
[2858.9s] literal. So, what is like the Bible
[2861.1s] language? We've been studying the word
[2863.2s] of God, but how should we look at the
[2865.8s] Bible language? Is it really figurative
[2868.6s] or literal? Um I think uh what our
[2872.4s] brother has been speaking about of the
[2873.9s] text uh taking the text out of its
[2876.2s] context and and to to help understand it
[2878.7s] that applies especially with regard to
[2880.8s] Bible prophecy. And this is something
[2882.6s] that we would notice as a h as you do a
[2885.6s] study of Bible prophecy, specifically
[2887.4s] apocalyptic prophecy. The book of
[2889.4s] Daniel, the book of Revelation, some
[2891.5s] symbols in the like the book of
[2893.1s] Zechariah, you find a lot of symbols
[2895.4s] used. And then the question is, are
[2897.4s] these symbols supposed to be taken
[2899.3s] literally, allegorically or or um in a
[2902.2s] symbol or in a symbolic way? And the
[2905.3s] answer is largely it is best to allow
[2907.8s] the Bible to explain itself. There's
[2910.2s] actually a text that uh just read in 2
[2913.6s] Peter chapter um 1 verse 20 and 21 where
[2917.8s] Peter is actually telling us that the
[2919.7s] Holy Spirit inspired the Bible as one
[2923.3s] almost like one organism like one entity
[2925.8s] one thing uh second Peter 1:20 and 21
[2929.9s] knowing this that no prophecy of the
[2932.5s] scripture is of any private
[2934.2s] interpretation why for the prophecy came
[2937.3s] not in all time by the will of man. But
[2940.3s] holy men spake as they were moved by
[2942.2s] who? Moved by the Holy Spirit. This
[2945.0s] tells us therefore that the Holy Spirit
[2947.1s] is the who inspired the book of Daniel,
[2949.4s] inspired the book of Matthew, inspired
[2951.8s] the book of Hebrews, inspired Zechariah,
[2954.3s] Genesis also inspired the book of
[2956.3s] Revelation. And therefore, the symbols
[2958.5s] and texts and the ideas presented there
[2960.7s] should be communicating with each other.
[2962.6s] It's almost it's like one idea has been
[2964.9s] spread out all over the text and several
[2967.2s] ideas have have had this um applied to
[2969.7s] them. There are few text here I want us
[2972.0s] to read and we will actually see that
[2973.4s] symbols are explained by the Bible
[2975.8s] itself. So that we don't have to go
[2977.8s] outside you know like for instance in
[2979.6s] the Bible there is a symbol of a bear
[2981.7s] right a bear with three ribs in its
[2983.6s] mouth. Now presently from current
[2986.1s] politics we know that a bear represents
[2987.8s] what? Russia. Yes. Uh the eagle
[2990.5s] represents what? America, you know, the
[2992.9s] dragon represents China, you know,
[2995.0s] things like that. And h that's all nice,
[2998.1s] but that cannot be used to be applied in
[2999.8s] the scriptures. You know, in the book of
[3001.5s] uh in the book of Daniel chapter 8,
[3003.4s] there is there is a ram um with two
[3006.4s] horns that is attacked by a goat with
[3009.0s] one horn that moves at a speed, sitting
[3010.8s] speed, it doesn't even touch the ground.
[3012.5s] Somebody took that and then applied it
[3014.2s] to what the twin towers being hit by one
[3017.0s] jet. You know that's it's interesting
[3018.7s] but clearly that application is not from
[3020.6s] inside the Bible that's outside. So
[3023.0s] let's allow the Bible to interpret
[3024.3s] itself in these examples. The book of
[3026.6s] Daniel 7 from verse 7 we find uh a
[3030.4s] particular symb um prophetic text. It
[3032.9s] says after this I saw in night visions
[3035.8s] uh a fourth beast and at the very end we
[3038.4s] are told the fourth beast had 10 horns.
[3040.5s] We are told it's great and terrible and
[3042.0s] does many wonderful things. But we're
[3044.3s] told at the very end of that verse, it
[3046.1s] has 10 horns. In the book of Daniel
[3048.3s] chapter 8, we have another beast that
[3051.0s] has two horns. After I lifted my eyes
[3053.6s] and behold, I saw a ram with two horns
[3056.3s] and the two horns were high and the
[3058.0s] higher came up last. Now, we don't have
[3061.3s] to go everywhere searching or trying to
[3063.6s] understand for ourselves, meditating and
[3065.1s] the like. No, we can go to the Bible
[3067.1s] itself. We saw that the Holy Spirit is
[3068.9s] one. The Holy Spirit who inspired one
[3071.0s] text of the Bible inspired the other
[3073.0s] text as well. Daniel 7:4 explains to us
[3076.6s] what the symbol of the horn represents.
[3079.0s] The 10 horns we are told Daniel 7:24 the
[3082.6s] 10 horns out of this kingdom are 10
[3085.0s] kings h that shall arise after them um
[3088.3s] uh that shall arise and another shall
[3089.8s] arise after them and he shall be diverse
[3091.4s] from the first king and he shall subdue
[3093.7s] all kings. and uh and and then verse 23
[3097.1s] we are told um the fourth beast is the
[3099.5s] fourth kingdom uh which shall be diverse
[3102.4s] from all the kingdoms. So you can
[3104.0s] actually see here that horns have been
[3106.3s] given an interpretation that is within
[3108.8s] the bible text that we don't have to go
[3111.3s] very far to understand what the bible
[3113.7s] text represents. Again, in the book of
[3116.2s] Revelation 1:16, we are told that there
[3119.3s] is a symbol of Jesus Christ. Clearly, it
[3121.2s] is a being that has the face like the
[3122.9s] sun, the feet like brass, and we're told
[3125.4s] out of his mouth comes what? A sharp
[3128.5s] twoedged sword. Now, what does that
[3131.3s] mean? Does that mean that when talking
[3132.4s] to Jesus, you should be dodging in the
[3134.2s] event that you know like swords just
[3136.4s] attack you and daggers? No. It's a
[3138.6s] symbol. Uh in the book of Ephesians
[3141.1s] 6:17, we are told to arm ourselves with
[3143.8s] what? the sword of the spirit which is
[3146.2s] the word of God. And again in Hebrews
[3148.7s] chapter 4:12, so the first was Ephesians
[3151.3s] 6:17. Hebrews 4:12, we are told that the
[3154.4s] word is sharper than a two-edged sword,
[3157.0s] able to divide even between the soul and
[3159.5s] the spirit. So again, we know what the
[3161.8s] symbol of the sword represents. It is
[3163.8s] the word of God. Again, a third symbol
[3166.6s] that we we find often in the Bible is in
[3169.0s] the book of Revelation 12:1. We are told
[3172.2s] there is a woman who is a wondrous
[3174.8s] symbol of a woman who is clothed with
[3177.1s] the sun. On her feet h she's standing on
[3180.2s] the moon and on her head she has a crown
[3182.0s] of 12 stars. You know we people ask
[3184.8s] questions. Is this woman Mary? Is this
[3187.2s] woman Eve? Who is this woman? The Bible
[3189.8s] explains itself. Revelation 21 verse2 we
[3193.8s] are told that Christ is um coming down
[3197.1s] with his bride. Revelation
[3199.8s] 21:2 we're told that out of heaven um I
[3203.9s] saw I John saw the holy city New
[3206.0s] Jerusalem come down from God out of
[3208.0s] heaven prepared as a what bride adorned
[3211.0s] for her husband and again in Ephesians
[3214.6s] 5:31 and 32 it appears like Paul is
[3218.2s] talking about the affection and the love
[3220.3s] that should be there between and the
[3221.8s] relationship between the husband and the
[3223.0s] wife but then in verse 32 he says what I
[3225.8s] speak of the church this is a mystery I
[3228.2s] speak of the church. In fact, in uh 2
[3231.3s] Corinthians, I believe 11:2, it says
[3234.4s] that he has um he presents a ch the the
[3237.8s] the church as as a spouse as a spouse of
[3241.0s] Christ, a chasteed virgin, as a spouse
[3243.1s] prepared for Christ. Again, even in the
[3245.5s] Old Testament, the all of Ezekiel
[3247.7s] chapter 16 um and in Jeremiah chapter
[3250.6s] 6:2, we are told, I have likened the
[3253.4s] daughter of Zion to a comely and a
[3255.7s] delicate woman. You see the symbol of a
[3257.4s] woman therefore represents what? A
[3259.4s] church. And even by extension when you
[3261.4s] look at the woman of revelation chapter
[3263.1s] 17 who is a hallot. You can see that
[3265.4s] must be what? A fallen church. So do you
[3267.8s] see that the Bible explains itself and
[3270.2s] the symbols are clear as you're reading
[3272.0s] the Bible to have it explain itself.
[3274.2s] Thank you. Amen. So what I can just
[3276.7s] conclude and say is that the Bible
[3279.1s] language can be literal or figurative
[3283.1s] depending on the context. Yeah. So thank
[3286.1s] you so much for joining us. Uh like we
[3289.2s] when we started I said that it cannot we
[3291.4s] cannot study all these things in one
[3293.4s] quarter. So even one lesson is not
[3295.7s] enough for us to exhaustively study
[3298.8s] everything. My plea to us is that we go
[3301.6s] back to the word of God. My plea to us
[3303.8s] is that we should not be afraid of Bible
[3307.3s] prophecy. And my plea to us is that
[3309.9s] we're going to talk about a lot of
[3311.8s] history. We are going to refer to many
[3314.4s] Bible chapters, Bible verses like the
[3317.7s] Bans. Go back, sit down, read in your
[3321.4s] own time. So when we are having this
[3323.2s] study, it's a bit an easy walk for all
[3326.3s] of us. The Lord will guide us. The Holy
[3329.0s] Spirit will strengthen us to understand
[3331.0s] his word. Uh thank you so much for
[3333.8s] joining us today. We are praying that
[3336.2s] you'll be with us again uh for our
[3339.0s] second lesson uh next week which will be
[3342.9s] the Genesis Foundation. Um may God keep
[3347.1s] you until then. Just please close for us
[3349.4s] with a word of prayer. Let us pray.
[3351.6s] Heavenly Father, thank you that you have
[3354.0s] shown us that you truly do want to be
[3356.5s] understood. Help us to understand the
[3359.0s] most difficult passages and help us in
[3361.8s] those passages to see you. As we enter
[3364.6s] into your word, reveal yourself to us
[3367.1s] for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.