Title: Lesson 4 || The Nations: Part 1 || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: ZsH5A9KGDCw
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZsH5A9KGDCw
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Amen. Praise God. Welcome to New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth Gong Avenue to our Sabbath school lesson discussion today. I'm quite excited about uh this lesson discussion because I love particularly the book of Revelation. Maybe my brothers here love it more, but I love this book. We have been studying illusions, symbolism and trying to look at all the symbols that are in the the book of revelation, the images that God has used to help us understand what is happening in these last days and how we can go back to the Bible and understand them and how we can study the book of revelation and be prepared to stand in these last days. Thank you for joining us today. I want my uh brothers who have joined us today to introduce themselves as you continue. We can start from this side. My name is Anongo Rafa. It's a pleasure to be with you. Thank you so much. Thank you for joining us. And my husband. Yes. My name is Jafet Rono. Thank you. Amen. And my name is Jess Rono. Today we are studying about the nations part one. Before we begin um Japet, would you kindly pray with us? Okay. Thank you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity of giving us to have this study. Every opportunity for study is an opportunity for growth and understanding of your word. We pray for more of your spirit not just upon us but upon all of our friends who are listening and viewing this um presentation that your holy spirit may ultimately be our guide in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. The key text for this week comes from the book of Daniel chapter 7 verse14. Brother Raphael kindly read for us Daniel 7:14. Daniel 7 and verse14 from the New King James Version says, "Then to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away and his kingdom the one which shall not be destroyed." M you know the book of revelation um presents to us um a a a tassel that goes on a controversy that goes on wars and battles one beast rising another beast falling and you can see there's a lot of um actually it's almost war from the end to the beginning and Christ desiring to prepare his church continually kingdoms being set up and not only the book of revelation the book of Daniel as well in the book of Daniel chapter 2 when we see the image of Nebuchadnezzar that had been set up. One kingdom rising up after another kingdom in the book of uh and we can see that in this world there has been a desire for human beings to control and lead this world. Um began with um Matthew chapter 4 when uh Christ um was taken up to the pinnacle by the devil himself. I'm the ruler of this world. And he has worked through agencies who have risen up and they have desired to control kingdoms rising, kingdoms falling. But the Bible gives us the assurance that after all this, God will set up a kingdom. And there is a there's an ideal that God has of how he will set up that kingdom. Daniel 7 says that he will set up a dominion. And it is an everlasting dominion that will last forever and ever. Not these our short-term kingdoms. You know, sometimes people think, "Oh my goodness, will this nation exist again? Will it be bombed out of the face of the earth? Will this nation rise into supremacy?" Oh, if you have signed up to be part of the bride of Christ, you are indeed signing up for a dominion that will last forever and we do not have to have fears of who will rule over it or how it will be ruled. I want us to start um by discussing how God set up started setting up at least an organization a setup that he put together from the garden of Eden what God what God's ideal was and what human beings in contrast ended up setting up as we start on the Sunday part. Um if you can uh take us through that love. Thank you so much. So uh uh uh in the book of Genesis chapter 2 even before the fall God had set up a simple system that all things uh were prepared for for Adam and Eve. We are told that um Genesis chapter 2 from verse um 16 uh uh uh 15 to 18 that everything in the garden was okay for them except one single tree and they were to take care to tend to keep it. Even after the fall, God said that that he would actually bring an end to the troubles that had entered into the world at that time. He says Genesis 3:15-15, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy head and thou shalt bruise his heel. So that serpent's head would be bruised. What does that mean? That the snake would ultimately be destroyed. Even if the snake would have an effect on bruising the heel of the seed of the woman, that is a typification of the controversy that Christ would actually bring an end to by destroying and crushing the head of the serpent. But even if God had promised to ultimately uh be the one who would would have brought an end to all the troubles, h we find that human beings on earth did not trust. Before we get to the human beings, maybe just one point on that which is actually very important that um my brother Afra, I'd like to bring you in on this that God setting up a government, it is not evil before God. A governments are not evil. Actually, God set up the first government. And who was given dominion? Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve were given dominion over the earth. Um maybe read for us Luke 3:38. Luke 3:38. Luke 3:38. Reading from the King James version, it says, "Which was the son of Enos, which was the son of Seth, which was a son of Adam, which was a son of God. The son of God himself had the first dominion. Had the first dominion. Maybe if you can just have a comment on this briefly before we go into how this government was broken and what human beings ended up setting up. Indeed, we see when God created uh begins the creation in Genesis chapter one, he sets up a location for mankind. He sort of sets up a dominion. A dominion is some is an area where one exercises power. In fact, the word kingdom is basically it says it's a dominion that is ruled by a king, by a monarch. The dome bit is a dominion aspect of it. So, Adam and Eve were given a a dominion. Their dominion was the whole earth but primarily the capital center was Eden. Eden was where they they were doiciled and and and where they lived in in in contact with God and with nature and with the with with the animals uh in in must have been very beautiful must have been a really beautiful uh beautiful situation and scenario that that they are in. And so in essence if I was to be very specific I would say in fact more more directly that the dominion was mostly given to Adam. Adam. That's why Adam, there's the concept of the first Adam and the second Adam. What the first Adam lost, the second Adam redeems. Amen. And so we see Adam and Eve, especially Adam given dominion over the Garden of Eden and all the creatures and everything that is in it. Amen. And love you pointed to this that that first government that God established was broken in the garden of Eden. Amen. Just what happens after this? Yes. So after this uh you have um uh in in in the book of Genesis chapter 3 until um uh chapter 10 you find um uh uh uh uh they were called the sons of men. They actually come together. Unfortunately they're very corrupt. They fill the world with corruption and God sends a flood to destroy the earth. But then even afterwards and he makes a promise that he will not destroy the earth. People still come together and they want to build a tower because they distrust the word of God. And even after God scatters the tower, still there's a desire to come together to establish uh systems of governance that are human in nature. And this is what we find in Genesis chapter 10. Uh if you look at the descendants of Ham, we are told uh uh verse 6, Genesis chapter 10, the sons of Ham, Kush, Mis Ry, and Foot and Cananan. The sons of Kush, Seba and Havila, and Saba and Rama and uh Sabeka. the sons of Rama uh Sheba and Dedan and Kush begat Nimrod and he began to be a mighty one in the earth. Verse n he was a mighty hunter before the Lord. In fact, if you read from I was looking at the translation uh it's the Greek translation of the Hebrew, it's called the septtogent. It says he was a mighty hunter against the Lord. Wherefore it is said even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before or again in the septtogent against the Lord and he and the beginning of his kingdom was Babel Eric Akad and Kal uh in the land of Shinus. He was establishing cities this great and mighty hunter whose name was Nimrod. In fact, the name Nimrod is so great that even that there are some very interesting theories that surround him that he was the first one to really codify the system of sun worship that him and his wife Seiramis were considered effectively the sun and the moon. That when the son himself died that Seamis somehow um in a strange way brought forth a son whose name is Tamuz. And we know in the book of Ezekiel chapter 8 there there were even rituals of the weeping for for tamuz that kind of false heathen system that began in those systems that were established by Nimrod. Nimrod the one who typified that system of rebellion against the Lord. Rebellion get against God systems very very early on. That system is a system we even find today. And this rebellion is something that God's people must reject explicitly. You know, uh um even the lesson actually highlights this that sometimes um the sin of rebellion can actually appear to be subtle because it can be masked in a in a um in the language of freedom, but it is not true freedom. It's like almost being free from air or free from gravity. It's not freedom. Sometimes those laws are beneficial and they're good for us. Oxygen is is is is suppressing us. Yeah. Supposedly, we need to free ourselves. Free ourselves from that. But there's no such thing. as the same way that we are sort of so to speak shackled by the law of God. That is not true. It is uh uh it embraces all things and it is wonderful and beneficial for us. Nimrod and and and and the systems and the principles that he conotes and represents were those systems of rebellion. God's people must oppose this rebellion and embrace the simplicity of trusting in God. Maybe maybe to take us back uh uh we we have established that the first dominion was was set up by God himself and Adam was was uh was put in charge. Then later on sin through the devil and temptation that is somewhere in Genesis chapter 3 we see the fall and as a result of that Adam and Eve lose uh the uh because of the the tree of life that was in the garden of Eden and for God not to immortalize sinners for sinners not to live forever they were removed from the garden and as a result of that the garden was still there and the Bible records that there were cherubs that were put there to guard and so in essence I would say that the first city was a city built by God. Amen. The first city was Eden and and and and I think even modern day architects are trying to inculcate nature into you know I I've seen renewable buildings in Singapore things like that. Yeah. You're trying of trying to go back to that original city that God built. It must have been wonderful but now it was still there. And the Bible records if you if I was to read the quotation from Patrick's and prophets page 62 that is quoted here there says the garden of Eden remained upon the earth long after man had become an outcast from its pleasant parts. Hither came Adam and his sons to worship God. Here they renewed their vows in obedience to the law uh to that law the transgression of which had banished them from Eden. When the tide of iniquity overspread the the world and the wickedness of men determined their destruction by a flood of waters, the hand that planted the garden of Eden withdrew it from the earth. But in the final restitution, when there shall be a new heaven and a new earth, it shall be restored more gloriously adorned than at the beginning. So it's telling us that the garden stayed there until after the flood. When the flood was was u came the garden was was removed and subsequently hitherto for mankind started building his own cities and governments and his own governments and to a certain extent there were also cities and governments that came with their own gods and with their own rules. Yeah, I think that's a that's a that's an interesting uh development especially as we speak about nation building. You know it's it's a term that many nations like to think about. When you talk about nation building, what is the aim of nation building? Are we simply to build to show like for example during the cold war between America and Russia? The glory of the nation, the glory of of a nation that actually landed on the moon, you know, we're actually saying that man is doing wonderful things, you know, or is it the glory of God, you know, and so I think they were actually fighting. Will America go in first or will Russia go in first? Yes. Who will put that flag first? And it's still debatable today whether they really landed on the moon. But that's not that's not the the the point of this discussion. Controversial brother. But but then we see the same spirit of Nimrod is echoed in the nations of today. The same spirit of Nimrod is echoed in the nations of today where we're looking to build empires. But in building these empires, are we working together with God? Are we also working to reestablish the image, the defaced image of God in mankind and in humanity? Amen. Amen. And this, you know, you see nations being organized for the first time after what God had organized in the Garden of Eden. Then we see men organizing themselves, putting together governments. But then we see God trying to do something else. all to reestablish from the time when God set up the garden of Eden, the son of God who was Adam having dominion and God being the leader. And here we see as you have mentioned the governments of men and men being leaders and men um um taking rule and ownership even of worship. We see God trying to still draw back men to how governments are supposed to be set up. Maybe if you can take us through that in how God now after this nations wicked nations have been established, how God wanted to Babylon has been established, Nineveh has been established, but now God wants to establish his own nation. What happens? So when God wants to establish his own nation, he calls a man outside of these cities. He calls a man by the name of Abraham in the book of uh Genesis chapter 12. and he called this man and I think maybe God might might have paused and looked at at at men at that particular point and and grace found Abraham to have fit a particular a particular standard that God required. There's nothing good in in in in in in Abraham more than other men. It's simply the outworking of grace and how he responded to the leadings of grace in his heart. something something perhaps maybe I would dare to to help us sort of um have some holy imagination when it comes to the when God was calling sister white we're told that he had actually called other men before calling the lady heen force and uh and I think William Foy William but they refused could it be possible perhaps there were others who were called before Abraham and it is only Abraham who responded we will never really know but we see that eventually when God wants to do a new thing when God wants to to to sort of come back into society, a society that that is forgetting him, a society that is organizing and and and and and mushling themselves together against him and and and and well nigh obliterating his memory uh from from from the earth from the face of the earth. He calls a man called Abraham and he calls this man Abraham in the book of Genesis 12 verse 1-9 and uh and he calls him and tells him to leave his people to leave uh familiar environments to a land where he will show him and when he goes there he will make him um um he calls a father of many nations. Yes, that's that's that's very interesting. Let me just uh what was the desire? Why would God want to separate Abraham from what from the nations where he was dwelling? Why would God want to separate and how did what God want to set this up? Thank you. It's actually because God was trying to establish a people after his own. I think we fail to appreciate that Abraham's descendants, not descendants, ancestors were heathen worshippers. And God needed somebody to be a a separate from from those systems that were around that was a totally utterly and unique uh individual. In fact, until later on, we actually speak God actually commands Abraham and says, "I see that you have commanded your household after you." Because it's so strange given that that he comes from like um a heathen area and a heathen nation. I think they used to worship the moon. Yeah. The father used to be a moon worshipper. Exactly. So, so God is trying to establish this system, this principle that is unique. In fact, that's why the blessing of Abraham is is so much to it's almost like God is carving out an entirely different people. He's saying that from you shall come out thousands, millions. Separate ye yourselves. I think we mentioned it in the last week. Come ye out. Come God called him out. And what was going to be what was going to make this new nation that God is setting up different? How was it going to be different from what he was setting up from what other nations had set up? what was going to be their key differentiator uh brother Rafael indeed it is significant that we are told Nimrod established Babylon and part of the territory of Babylon is also Ur of the Caldans you know the Caldans were almost synonymous with the Babylonians. So you can you can say that in a in a hidden environment God calls Abraham and he calls him he calls him so that he can he can bless him. In fact, the way he says he he says a number of things. He says, "I will make you a great nation. I will bless you and I will make your name great." And he says through him, he will bless all the families of the earth. And that redemption was going to come through Abraham. It is consistent with the promise in Genesis 3 and:15 in that God had promised that after the fall that he would bring a seed and this seed was going to be born that Christ was going to be born. God was going to be come of the flesh and he was going to God has to establish a lineage. He's he has to establish so quote unquote a church through which his son was going to come and be born and eventually die for the sins of of of of of all of us. And one of the first founding fathers of this church is this man Abraham as he has been called. But what made what makes a nation different from another nation? What makes the laws of the nation? The laws of the nations. So maybe we can just go through that especially as portrayed in the book of Deuteronomy of what made this nation that God was setting up different from the other nations. What would make them powerful and beautiful from what from what Nimrod had set up? For example, uh it's found in the book of Deuteronomy. We are asked to consider Deuteronomy 4:5-9. Deuteronomy chapter 4 verse 5-9. And the unique aspect that we find uh in this text is that unlike other nations and their gods, this was a nation I would say almost like when when when when um when uh when they were saying the PC becomes personal when HP was uh was launching laptops, you know, uh and and and and the PCs become this was God becoming personal like it was unique that God was near to Israel. In fact, he tells them that he if they obey the things that he has taught them, if they do the things that he has taught them, that this will be their wisdom and their understanding. And and this was a personal god, an intimate god. At a time when gods were scandalous, at a time when if you read about the gods of the Greeks of the mythological gods, these were gods who were asking for child worship, child sacrifices. This was a god who says, "Lo, I am close to you. I will protect you. I will provide for you and I love you. It was it was a totally different concept of God as opposed to the gods of the pagans and and God was telling them that he will be their wisdom and their understanding and that their strength and that the other nations will be able to come to them and see a difference and in in a sense God is saying that I will be the difference the other nations will say who is this nation that is so wise that's so great and so great and the secret will be what because they do they taught of God and beyond being taught they obey and they do the things that God has instructed them to do. Very interesting that they said that the nations will call them wise. You know, you remember the queen of Sheba traveling all the way to come and like what is this great nation? You know, um actually also during Hezekiah's time, nations traveling to come and see what just happened to the son. The other nations when they also traveled from Egypt, all the other nations were scared of them. Remember what Rahab said? We heard what your God has done. And like what nation is this that is so wise, so understanding? What made them wise? What made them um beautiful before the nations? The laws of God. The statutes that were very unique that God gave them. And you know, you might look at the statutes that God has given you today. You want to throw them say, "Oh, this is a cake. This is weird. This is this is old time. This is this has been this the time the time this is not the time for these things." Oh, let me tell you this is actually what makes you as a Christian beautiful. This is what separates you from the rest of the world. But did the did the children of Israel appreciate this God as their leader? Did they want appreciate this? Not too far from there in the book of 1 Samuel chapter 8. We see them crying out to God. And in particular in verse 7, they come and they they they are um they are making a lot of noise and they are bothering Samuel and they tell uh the elders come to Samuel and they say um I will read verse 4 and 5 says, "Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel a trauma and they said to him, behold you have grown old and your sons do not walk in your ways. now appoint a king for us to judge us like what? Like all the other nations. They wanted to to to look like the other nations. A question that I would ask um love if you can just uh talk to us about this. Why was this an act of rebellion when they went to ask for a king? Because they already had a king. Uh king means what? The the the the ruler, the one who's like the um um whose word is the ultimate word. That was so basically when they're saying give us a king, they're basically saying we want somebody other than this one. And in fact, God in fact would say they're not rejecting you somewhere. I remember he was actually so depressed. He cried and he went to God because it's like relax. It's not you they are rejecting. Verse seven, it says they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me that I should reign over them. They rebelled against God himself. They did not want God to be their ruler. they they refused the leadership of God. Could you be refusing the leadership of God today and saying ah I think you know we do not like the way this and this is happening would prefer to have another leader would prefer to have another leader but God desires to be the leader of his people. God wanted to be the leader of his people. What are some of the warnings that God gave them? When you have a king this is what will happen. What are some of those things that they were warned about? Indeed, the Bible records in verse 11, and he says the following to these people. And this will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you. He shall take your sons and your daughters, your sons rather, and appoint them for himself for his chariots to be his horsemen and some shall run before his chariots. It's akin to today uh military conscription as well as uh in any presidential entrage. You see those guys who run before you know those are sons and daughters of of of other people, you know, and and they're preparing the way for the king or for the president, for the monarch, for the ruler. And and God is it's almost like word for word what is happening today. You know, it says some shall run before his chariots. And it says in verse 12, "And they shall appoint him captains over thousands and captains over 50s, and they will set them to ear his ground, you know, and to reap his harvest and to make his instruments of war and instruments of his chariots. He shall take them and employ them, you know, to the military to to to to the to warfare, you know, and and and and this he will take all all these to your daughters. He says they will be cooks, you know, they will be to to highlight that point of verse 12, think about how there are some wars that have resulted in the h the death of tens or hundreds of millions and the cause is just one person's ego. Like one person is just egotistical, the pride of the king. Yeah, one person is egotistical and because of one person's ego, because three people cannot agree on something, then they decide to fight. Let's send our young people to fight and then they settle. Whoever whoever of us whose military is stronger carries the day. Yes. And that's actually I think what he's saying here that that those instruments of all will be his. So they'll be the king's instrument, not God's instruments. And so it'll be at the whim of the king. The king is like, "Oh, this person or this political or this dramatic thing." And all of a sudden, people's lives are are are actually in jeopardy because of that. Like literally, he will have the fate and the futures of their of their of of of their children and even of themselves in his hands to do with as he pleases, as he is led. Yes. Clearly you can see that God wanted to be the ruler of his people of and and and and even of his church as he's establishing his own nation. He wants to be that ruler. And he says he's not establishing a king so that you can serve him so that you can you so that you can all be subservient to him. It is very different when God is ruling over us. Indeed something interesting. It says uh in verse 13 it says he will take your daughters to make confectionaries maybe like um uh pastry chefs or something to be cooks and to be b bears. And it continues in verse 14 he will take your fields and your vineyards and your olive even the best of them and give them to his servants. He's going to be rewarding his cronies. He's going to that there are some people who will suffer loss of property. A story the story of Ahab and this Nabot and his vineard. God did not want the he saw what happens when one man is put over in charge over the affairs of other men. God wanted to lead them himself. It was going to be a theocracy. God was the one who's going to to to to lead and he's the one who ultimately give that which is called true justice. All all manner all forms of justice here on earth have got some biases. There are people who through the loopholes of our legal system as tight as we want to to to make it to be. So there are definitely some innocent men who are serving time. These are the situations and scenarios that God wanted to do away with if he himself was going to lead. Unfortunately, they refused to be led by an invisible God. Amen. Amen. When a holy God wants to lead sinners, you will find sinners desiring to lead other sinners. All the consequences of that. And God warned of this. He said even beyond other nations being led by sinners. I want to warn you of this that this does not happen in our churches, even with the church. Maybe you can just take us that as we go into the Wednesday part about God's desire for him to even remain the supreme ruler of the church. Thank you. Uh this is something that Jesus Christ actually said because he noted you know the desire for supremacy that you're talking about is a desire that is common to all of humanity. In fact in the hierarchy of sins uh the seven deadly sins so to speak what is normally at the top. It's not even greed or lust or something. It is pride. It is the the desire to place oneself as a god as a king over other people. And that is what was present even among the disciples of Jesus Christ. those who you would think you know that humility of Christ would drop off on them. It was present up until the very point of the death of Jesus Christ. So it's not very it's it's actually not something very new. For a long time, human beings have been striving to rule over each other. Everyone wants to be a ruler. Everyone's striving for the master for the mastery. Thank you so much. So in the book of Matthew 20 25-28 um uh uh uh in fact um uh there's actually a story of not a story um a description of the two sons of Zebedee. And apparently they had gotten their mother to try and ask Jesus, you know, we want this person to be the minister of the the treasury and then this other person to be the the minister of the entire security. They were negotiating for for position for the high position the cabinet of of heaven in the kingdom. And then verse 24 when the disciples here it's all that they castigate and say oh no sons of Zebedee you should be humble. It's like no you're taking my place. I was the one who supposed to take this uh this office and this position like you guys are trying to cut us off. Some of us came first. We came first. We were called first. You called number three number four. So something like that. And it says verse 24, when the 10 had it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. But Jesus called them unto him and says, you know that, and I'm reading again from Matthew 20 from verse 25-28. But Jesus called unto him and said, you know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. Think about everyone who is called the great. You know, somebody whose last name, like you, my last name is Rono. I'm not called Jaffith the great but we have Alexander the great I don't know Frederick the great who so those people are the great why because they exercise authority over other people and people look up to them as you know great people who have done magnificent things so to speak you know like fits of of of of a unique nature verse 26 but this shall not be so among you that Christ's kingdom his systems do not are not like the systems of the world whosoever will be great among you Peter the great, h Judas the great, James the great, let him be your minister. Amen. Let him be your servant. You know the word minister we have forgotten. Minister actually means servant. Doesn't mean highly paid uh government official. Minister actually just means servant. Whosoever will be chief among you. Uh verse 27, let him be your servant. Verse 28, even as the son of man came not to be ministered unto but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. And so here we find that Christ is saying that humility is what gospel should desire and not greatness which you could see was even inherent in Christ's closest disciples. It was so it was so fundamental that it is a sin that must be rebuked everywhere. And the worst part is pride is like an invisible sin. You know sometimes you can see the consequences of fornication. Other times you can't see it but it is visible. You know you can see greed sometimes but then pride pride can be hidden. In fact pride can be the one that is condemning lust. It can be the one that is condemning greed but it is the it is the most insidious of these uh sins because it is it is almost your partaking of the very spirit of the great acrebel and the great deceiver himself Satan. Amen. Amen. Let me just ask you, how is this being manifest today between one another? How are we as Christians show lifting up ourselves and not choosing to serve one another? Whether in this in our churches today or even outside here? Indeed, I think um the spirit of servantthood, servant, servant leadership uh is lacking. You know, we all want the best positions. You know, if there's a music Sabbath, people scramble. You don't even consider those who are pregnant, those who have children and and everybody gets gets the the the the top places, you know, and we we not consider it about our neighbors. Um and indeed the love of many has grown cold. But Christ was trying to remind us and to teach us that in his kingdom it is actually uh the one who is serves that is great. Amen. He gives us the example of he himself you know when he washed his disciples feet when he when he condescended and came and put on the gab of humanity. Christ is speaking to us that indeed we should be considered with one another that if you are being selected to be a deacon. It is it is not a position for you to lord over others but rather it is an opportunity to serve with fa with with in faithfulness and in love to be an to to assist. You know, if you're given a position to be an elder, you're not supposed you're not called to be a dictator. If you're called to be a pastor, a conference leader in in this in in any area of service in the kingdom of God, you're supposed to to to to be one of the most the meicst of the meek and and and and serve with with utmost faithfulness. Even uh uh when you're called to be a boss somewhere, you have power, you uh you're a doctor, whatever your profession is, we're supposed to give service to humanity in a way that is different that they can be able to say indeed this is a nation that is wise. This is an wise and understanding people. These are there something different. And when they ask about it, you tell them it's because we have learned from he who is the king of kings and the lord of lords. He who humbled himself and took upon himself as Paul writes in Philippians, even the gab of mankind and went all the way and died on the cross for you and I as an example of true leadership, servant leadership that works for the people and um not for self. You know Christ writes and says that I came to minister not to be ministered unto. He says I am he that serveth. He comes to serve. But how did the church now corrupt itself? this church which Christ established on the basis and the foundation of service. How did it corrupt itself and start crying out like the children of Israel, we want a king to be like other nations? Thank you so much. So what happened was as as I said this desire is so inherent that the disciples had it. Christ uh rebuked uh this desire several times. Matthew 23:8 Christ says, "Be not called rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ's and all ye are brethren." All ye are brethren. Unfortunately, h after the persecution um that we described and we discussed in detail um last week um and the church grasped at the power that this emperor called Constantine was giving to the church. You know, the church has stopped being persecuted. The church has stopped being an unofficial and illegal religion. It has become first of all an accepted religion. Secondly, the official religion of the Roman Empire. Then all of a sudden they start grasping for power. They start grasping for control. They start asking for the power of the state to execute and to deal with their problems. And then people in the church start being given positions of significant authority. The church starts looking to the state to see how the state has a very strict hierarchy. We read here all ye are what? All ye are brethren. In the scriptures the the position of a of of um of a bishop which is actually um in several places and this is h this this may sound very controversial. It is interchanged with elder several times in the in the writings is actually it is not like a high position. It's not like a small god or a demigod. It's just a brother who has a particular responsibility position. Exactly. Some some sort of responsibility. But then here all of a sudden they came a hierarchy the bishops the deacons and the the the lady and then even the idea of lady began to be established and the clergy those are the high positions archbishop yeah and so and so so forth and then you end up with these hierarchies and and and and let's say you know um this church New Life um establishes a small Sabbath school and then suddenly the Sabbath school starts looking up to New Life and let's say the bishop of New Life is seen as the overseer of these others and he's the overseer of and so all of a sudden that that hierarchy seeped in up until there were four centers of authority in um in Rome in Constantinople in Antioch and in Alexandria and then these bishops themselves were seen as superior among the lower ones and then even among them there was a striving after authority and who is the most supreme one in the Bible there's no hierarchy of the bishop of Galatia versus the bishop of Corinth there's no such But then as time progresses as that thing of pride we we're talking about is like the disciples fighting striving for the master striving that fighting I want to be the minister of this yeah but minister in the sense of not not serving but in the cabinet. So um all of a sudden the bishop of Rome because Rome was the center gains the supremacy and then and and and with that all manner of of of of of challenge actually enter it. First of all, that bishop gains the authority and the power to persecute those who at least that individual see feels h do not think and do not listen in a way that is in line with that person's will. And then all of a sudden this strict hierarchy which is utterly unbiblical becomes an instrument of persecuting God's people throughout history. And and and even you could see the past bishops of Rome who themselves were not supreme would have condemned what eventually happened to that particular office and all the other sins that came in. Suddenly Mary becomes almost like a patron in a sense of that office. Suddenly uh uh the idea of idolatry becomes sanctioned because different churches are are discussing and arguing and then they come to one individual the bishop of Rome to say um what is the right doctrine on this issue and he speaks suddenly the bishop speaks excedra that he speaks from a special throne and a special office that is unique and above all others. Suddenly the bishop becomes the the prince of apostles you know um you know h because supposedly Peter was the prince of apostles and he is he is the first pope they say yeah so to speak which is not really the case yeah but but but so so so so he said that he becomes the head in a sense he becomes even the vicar the representative of Jesus Christ on earth so that as Christ had all ultimate authority of heaven earth and everything under the earth. Then suddenly the vicar of Christ is crowned with a triple crown and and and and receives in himself the highest form of blasphemy. And how does arise? Not from some alien principle but from this principle of not embracing humility that Christ is strongly desirous that his people should embrace. Very sad. And that office became a very corrupt office. the the office of the papacy who was going to be pope became if you read history it will tell you that people ended up um buying that office they give money to buy the was called but we just did it anyway yes people will be killed so that someone can take that office at some point I think in history we know of the history when we actually had three pops and they were all fighting for supremacy and they want to be the leaders they want to be the ones who are being served they want to collect get all the monies from the regions and they want to um acquire so much wealth and so much control. So such a big contrast to what God wanted to establish and to how Christ actually led his own church, how Christ led his own church today. Maybe I'd ask a question. You know, sometimes it's easy to to talk about history and and and and other organizations. Then what about us as the 7th Adventist church? As as we moved from a movement and we got organized, is it possible that perhaps there are pitfalls that some could say that have come uh with organization? Is it possible that perhaps we similarly are developing a hier a hierarchical system uh in which then we view others as greater superior believers than than than ourselves and just calls to mind and ask ourselves when Christ called his disciples is it do we see anywhere instances where he elevates some more than others? Uh I I I don't think so. I think uh the reality of history is there to educate us in our days and in our times that we similarly shouldn't fall to similar pitfalls because it's a reality that sometimes in certain churches you find just because you've been made an elder does not mean that you are better than others you know just because you have been made maybe a head elder and sometimes you find people breaking because whoever my candidate whoever I I wanted to to be to sort of be in leadership has not occupied and and sometimes sad to say we find uh congregations uh breaking down along tribal lines you know along so economic uh stratifications and it is sad and so it simply calls us to once again introspect also as we study the history of Israel are we today looking more to men than to Christ asking for give me a king are we perhaps looking you know for example uh you when we when when when when when as a church you reject a minister uh or when as a church for one reason or another, you know, uh we need to we need to to to introspect and ask ourselves, are we perhaps uh looking at the history of the people of the Roman church, the Catholic Church, but then are there lessons that we can learn for ourselves since we organized maybe uh as panelists uh as the Adventist church. You know the system of the papacy is not the unique to them. It is the principles that runs within that system is the principles that hand within the sinful heart of man. We the desire for supremacy where men have organized. Yes. And so how can we put in check this desire for supremacy? Actually you know I you've just reminded me recently I attended holy communion in a particular church and the elder particularly refused to be served by a deacon by an ordained deacon refused to accept could only be served by the pastor. So the the deacon was confused, went once, went twice, went, came back again and there was a lot of confusion at the front and even the pastor was confused what is happening because the the the the deacon is beneath me. I cannot be served by a deacon. We we are indeed looking for um um to be to to to rise above to show that we are we are better the mastery over the other but who is the greatest in the kingdom of God. Yeah. Yeah. So um I would actually say it is true when you look at the history of of of the church when you look at the history of Israel it is not for us to to to try and puff ourselves up and say look at them look at their sins it's for us to realize by the it could be us except for grace and except for God transforming us day by day. So to your question how can we keep that from happening I would say we go back to the cross we need to be converted as individuals and as a church. A church that is filled with the Holy Spirit will embrace the principles of the Holy Spirit will have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. One of which is humility. So and and in that humility it will destroy even that desire for supremacy. We will see in each other brothers all ye are brethren. All ye are brethren. It was actually um I don't have the quotation here um where uh the spirit of prophecy Ellen White was very much commending that we stop calling each other elder you know elder to say brother testimonies to the church volume one I cannot remember the exact passage but it testimonies to church volume one to call each other brother and sister why it we appreciate the idea that all ye are brethren one in Christ are brethren yesdeed and it actually she actually says it is a sign it is a sign of corruption in the church when you find we're not calling each other brother so and so and sister so and so and we view each other as greater than others the spirit of humility but the question is why did God set up call Israel to be apart what was God's intention with Israel what was God's intention with a church that is separate as well what was God's intention as we move on to the Thursday part in the midst of the hustle and bustle of secularism in the midst of the hustle and bustle of men and women trying to rank and to better one another. God wanted to set up a separate system. A system in which all are equal and in which all feel equally loved and appreciated for their efforts and for and and for whatever uh their contributions. And so it is for this purpose that God creates a church. It is for this purpose because indeed in these systems where people are loading over each other, they are bound to be people who are hurt. They are bound to be people who are trampled upon. They are bound to be people whose needs and wants and and and and and whose uh whose whose um uh who are neglected in one way or another. And so God calls the church, you know, through right living to give an example, a testimony of what it what it entails to truly be a nation under God, to be one nation under God. And the lesson writer says that believers living in harmony with God highlight his righteous character which naturally leads to conviction and and and ideally the lives of people who keep the commandments of God now do what? They showcase his character. Amen. And so the primary purpose for which God establishes the nation of Israel was not to condemn the rest of the world but to save it. Amen. God calls us uh to be active. God calls us to be different because indeed the world is looking for something different. The world is looking for an oasis where they can find water where they can find rest from the striving and the mastery that is all around us. And now that we are surrounded by many nations, I would say nations particularly true nations but also many churches. What is the specific message that God has given to his church for us to be able to reach these nations? The message is actually found in the book of revelation 18 verse 1-4. The message is actually first of all the gospel. It is not that there's a new special. It is the same gospel. It is called in revelation 14 verse1 vers 6 the everlasting gospel. And then we are told in verse 8 come out of her my people. And again in Revelation 18 verse 1-4 it says that there is a another angel flying in the midst of heaven having a having being lightened uh with great power and he cries mightily Babylon is fallen is fallen. And then in verse four we are told come out of her my people and be not partakers of her sins that you receive not of her plagues. that God wants us to preach a message to call people out of the corruptions and the corrupting influences or the systems that are clearly unbiblical that you can see clearly it is a mixture of worldliness and Christianity come out of that to to the systems that God has established which are pure. Amen. Amen. And my brother, we've conducted many missions um in the past especially when we were back in the university. What are some of those lessons that you draw? Some of those key takeaways that you had when you went for mission sites to be a light to other nations, to other gentiles, to these churches which we say they may not have received the very principles that God has laid out as a foundation in his word. I think ultimately that which is the differentiating factor is the revelation of God's character in our lives. The revelation of God's character in our lives. how in the way we we we we eat, in the way we uh treat one another, you know, in the way we dress, you know, it it it is a radical shift, a a fundamental change and a rejection of of of the norms of the world and and and and and embracing of our identity in Christ and uh and and being faithful and and and and rising up to the occasion and and and trying as much as by the grace and power of God to meet that divine standard that God has put for each and every single one of us. And so in in the mission field and in our lives, it entails keeping the Sabbath well. You know, it entails um if you're a student, doing your best in class, doing your giving your best for the master. If you are given a position to serve as a prefect, as a as a as a as as a leader, not putting your needs first, you know, negotiating for yourself, uh taking resources that should go to to fellow students for your own gains, but rather offering selfless service, you know, even to the extent of even spending your own resources so that others may be able to to to to to benefit and and in essence living that Christian life, being that true and Christian living testimony embodying the gospel. Amen. Amen. The book of Isaiah 42:6 says, "I am the Lord. I have called you in righteousness. I will also hold you by their hand and watch over you. And I will point you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the nations." God has called us to be alert to the Gentiles. To show them the spirit of service, to show them the spirit of submitting not to men, not to kings, not to presidents, not to human beings around us, but submitting only to God as our true ruler. God has called the Seventh Day Adventist Church to go out and present the three angels messages as that cleaver of truth to cleave out many other people from the minds of this world to bring them to the light of the truth. God has called you. Thank you so much for joining us today. I want to just give my brothers a few minutes to give us um their key takeaway points so that you know what were the key takeaways for this lesson even as we close. Thank you. I think for me the key takeaways is that the systems that Christ is establishing are systems based upon his character humility. The Christ likeness includes fundamentally humility. We told inh Philippians 2:5, "Let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus would not think it like as people properly like a great thing to be to be in God." But he took upon himself the form of a servant. So almost fundamental to his to his mission was humility. Fundamental to our experience should be humility. If you are struggling with the issue of pride, if you are struggling with the desire for supremacy, then pray for the Holy Spirit to give you that fruits of humility as you manifest that character of Jesus Christ even today. Amen. Amen. Brother Rafael, I would add to what Jaff is saying that a cure to pride is service. So be involved in service, especially selfless service. Go out there, visit the children's home. You see the things that Christ says entail to Christianity to v to visit the widows and and and and and the and the and the um the orphans in society to visit the sick in hospitals to clothe those who are naked. You know th that is what it entails to truly show Christ. Where whereas others are looking to be served whereas others are looking at others as go as as as inferior and and as uneducated. Christ is calling us to reach out to the masses and to show them and to show them love not because of ourselves but because Christ himself has first loved us. Amen. Amen. God wants to be our ruler. If you have been submitting to an elder, a bishop, a pope, a pastor, a priest, whoever you've been submitting to as your authority, submit only to God. Submit only to God. Kindly pray with us even as we close. Thank you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity given us to have this study, the study of the nations. uh this introductory study we have learned much especially about how the systems of the world are systems of supremacy self-exaltation but the principle of heaven is that principle of humanity where Jesus Christ from heaven is reaching down to earth uh to save us and reach down to the lowest point we pray for more of your spirit as we seek to learn more biblical lessons in Jesus name I pray amen thank you 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[8.0s] Amen. Praise God. Welcome to New Life
[11.5s] 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth Gong
[14.1s] Avenue to our Sabbath school lesson
[16.6s] discussion today. I'm quite excited
[18.8s] about uh this lesson discussion because
[21.5s] I love particularly the book of
[23.8s] Revelation. Maybe my brothers here love
[26.4s] it more, but I love this book. We have
[28.7s] been studying illusions, symbolism and
[31.4s] trying to look at all the symbols that
[34.1s] are in the the book of revelation, the
[36.9s] images that God has used to help us
[39.1s] understand what is happening in these
[41.4s] last days and how we can go back to the
[43.9s] Bible and understand them and how we can
[46.3s] study the book of revelation and be
[48.3s] prepared to stand in these last days.
[51.4s] Thank you for joining us today. I want
[53.8s] my uh brothers who have joined us today
[56.6s] to introduce themselves as you continue.
[58.8s] We can start from this side. My name is
[60.6s] Anongo Rafa. It's a pleasure to be with
[62.6s] you. Thank you so much. Thank you for
[64.6s] joining us. And my husband. Yes. My name
[66.6s] is Jafet Rono. Thank you. Amen. And my
[70.1s] name is Jess Rono. Today we are studying
[74.0s] about the nations part one. Before we
[77.5s] begin um Japet, would you kindly pray
[80.6s] with us? Okay. Thank you. Let's pray.
[83.5s] Heavenly Father, we thank you for the
[85.0s] opportunity of giving us to have this
[86.7s] study. Every opportunity for study is an
[89.4s] opportunity for growth and understanding
[91.2s] of your word. We pray for more of your
[93.1s] spirit not just upon us but upon all of
[95.5s] our friends who are listening and
[97.7s] viewing this um presentation that your
[100.3s] holy spirit may ultimately be our guide
[102.5s] in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[105.8s] The key text for this week comes from
[108.2s] the book of Daniel chapter 7 verse14.
[112.2s] Brother Raphael kindly read for us
[113.9s] Daniel 7:14. Daniel 7 and verse14 from
[118.1s] the New King James Version says, "Then
[120.2s] to him was given dominion and glory and
[122.9s] a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and
[126.2s] languages should serve him. His dominion
[128.5s] is an everlasting dominion which shall
[130.4s] not pass away and his kingdom the one
[132.6s] which shall not be destroyed." M you
[135.3s] know the book of revelation um presents
[137.8s] to us um a a a tassel that goes on a
[141.5s] controversy that goes on wars and
[143.6s] battles one beast rising another beast
[146.6s] falling and you can see there's a lot of
[149.3s] um actually it's almost war from the end
[151.6s] to the beginning and Christ desiring to
[153.8s] prepare his church continually kingdoms
[156.5s] being set up and not only the book of
[158.2s] revelation the book of Daniel as well in
[160.5s] the book of Daniel chapter 2 when we see
[162.2s] the image of Nebuchadnezzar that had
[164.2s] been set up. One kingdom rising up after
[167.2s] another kingdom in the book of uh and we
[169.8s] can see that in this world there has
[172.3s] been a desire for human beings to
[174.7s] control and lead this world. Um began
[178.0s] with um Matthew chapter 4 when uh Christ
[181.4s] um was taken up to the pinnacle by the
[183.6s] devil himself. I'm the ruler of this
[185.7s] world. And he has worked through
[187.7s] agencies who have risen up and they have
[190.3s] desired to control kingdoms rising,
[192.8s] kingdoms falling. But the Bible gives us
[195.5s] the assurance that after all this, God
[198.8s] will set up a kingdom. And there is a
[201.8s] there's an ideal that God has of how he
[204.6s] will set up that kingdom. Daniel 7 says
[207.1s] that he will set up a dominion. And it
[209.4s] is an everlasting dominion that will
[212.2s] last forever and ever. Not these our
[214.6s] short-term kingdoms. You know, sometimes
[216.2s] people think, "Oh my goodness, will this
[218.4s] nation exist again? Will it be bombed
[220.5s] out of the face of the earth? Will this
[222.3s] nation rise into supremacy?" Oh, if you
[225.0s] have signed up to be part of the bride
[227.0s] of Christ, you are indeed signing up for
[229.6s] a dominion that will last forever and we
[231.9s] do not have to have fears of who will
[234.2s] rule over it or how it will be ruled. I
[238.2s] want us to start um by discussing how
[241.0s] God set up started setting up at least
[243.6s] an organization a setup that he put
[246.2s] together from the garden of Eden what
[248.6s] God what God's ideal was and what human
[252.6s] beings in contrast ended up setting up
[255.0s] as we start on the Sunday part. Um if
[258.0s] you can uh take us through that love.
[260.3s] Thank you so much. So uh uh uh in the
[263.0s] book of Genesis chapter 2 even before
[265.4s] the fall God had set up a simple system
[268.5s] that all things uh were prepared for for
[271.8s] Adam and Eve. We are told that um
[274.5s] Genesis chapter 2 from verse um 16 uh uh
[278.2s] uh 15 to 18 that everything in the
[280.8s] garden was okay for them except one
[283.2s] single tree and they were to take care
[285.6s] to tend to keep it. Even after the fall,
[288.0s] God said that that he would actually
[291.2s] bring an end to the troubles that had
[293.5s] entered into the world at that time. He
[295.4s] says Genesis 3:15-15, I will put enmity
[299.0s] between thee and the woman, between thy
[301.1s] seed and her seed. It shall bruise thy
[303.3s] head and thou shalt bruise his heel. So
[306.0s] that serpent's head would be bruised.
[308.2s] What does that mean? That the snake
[309.7s] would ultimately be destroyed. Even if
[312.2s] the snake would have an effect on
[313.4s] bruising the heel of the seed of the
[315.6s] woman, that is a typification of the
[318.1s] controversy that Christ would actually
[320.1s] bring an end to by destroying and
[321.6s] crushing the head of the serpent. But
[325.3s] even if God had promised to ultimately
[327.8s] uh be the one who would would have
[329.6s] brought an end to all the troubles, h we
[332.5s] find that human beings on earth did not
[334.5s] trust. Before we get to the human
[336.0s] beings, maybe just one point on that
[338.1s] which is actually very important that um
[340.9s] my brother Afra, I'd like to bring you
[342.4s] in on this that God setting up a
[344.8s] government, it is not evil before God. A
[346.9s] governments are not evil. Actually, God
[348.7s] set up the first government. And who was
[351.0s] given dominion? Adam and Eve. Adam and
[353.6s] Eve were given dominion over the earth.
[356.3s] Um maybe read for us Luke 3:38. Luke
[359.9s] 3:38. Luke 3:38. Reading from the King
[364.5s] James version, it says, "Which was the
[368.2s] son of Enos, which was the son of Seth,
[370.3s] which was a son of Adam, which was a son
[372.6s] of God. The son of God himself had the
[375.8s] first dominion. Had the first dominion.
[377.9s] Maybe if you can just have a comment on
[379.7s] this briefly before we go into how this
[382.6s] government was broken and what human
[384.5s] beings ended up setting up. Indeed, we
[386.6s] see when God created uh begins the
[389.4s] creation in Genesis chapter one, he sets
[391.5s] up a location for mankind. He sort of
[395.0s] sets up a dominion. A dominion is some
[397.5s] is an area where one exercises power. In
[400.6s] fact, the word kingdom is basically it
[404.0s] says it's a dominion that is ruled by a
[405.8s] king, by a monarch. The dome bit is a
[407.9s] dominion aspect of it. So, Adam and Eve
[410.4s] were given a a dominion. Their dominion
[412.6s] was the whole earth but primarily the
[414.7s] capital center was Eden. Eden was where
[417.6s] they they were doiciled and and and
[419.5s] where they lived in in in contact with
[421.9s] God and with nature and with the with
[423.7s] with the animals uh in in must have been
[426.5s] very beautiful must have been a really
[427.8s] beautiful uh beautiful situation and
[430.2s] scenario that that they are in. And so
[432.4s] in essence if I was to be very specific
[435.2s] I would say in fact more more directly
[438.3s] that the dominion was mostly given to
[440.7s] Adam. Adam. That's why Adam, there's the
[443.4s] concept of the first Adam and the second
[445.1s] Adam. What the first Adam lost, the
[447.6s] second Adam redeems. Amen. And so we see
[451.3s] Adam and Eve, especially Adam given
[454.4s] dominion over the Garden of Eden and all
[456.7s] the creatures and everything that is in
[458.2s] it. Amen. And love you pointed to this
[460.3s] that that first government that God
[462.8s] established was broken in the garden of
[465.1s] Eden. Amen. Just what happens after
[467.0s] this? Yes. So after this uh you have um
[470.3s] uh in in in the book of Genesis chapter
[472.2s] 3 until um uh chapter 10 you find um uh
[476.7s] uh uh uh they were called the sons of
[479.1s] men. They actually come together.
[480.9s] Unfortunately they're very corrupt. They
[482.5s] fill the world with corruption and God
[484.9s] sends a flood to destroy the earth. But
[486.8s] then even afterwards and he makes a
[488.4s] promise that he will not destroy the
[489.6s] earth. People still come together and
[491.4s] they want to build a tower because they
[493.4s] distrust the word of God. And even after
[496.3s] God scatters the tower, still there's a
[498.9s] desire to come together to establish uh
[501.7s] systems of governance that are human in
[503.6s] nature. And this is what we find in
[505.2s] Genesis chapter 10. Uh if you look at
[507.4s] the descendants of Ham, we are told uh
[510.0s] uh verse 6, Genesis chapter 10, the sons
[512.3s] of Ham, Kush, Mis Ry, and Foot and
[515.0s] Cananan. The sons of Kush, Seba and
[517.8s] Havila, and Saba and Rama and uh Sabeka.
[521.0s] the sons of Rama uh Sheba and Dedan and
[523.8s] Kush begat Nimrod and he began to be a
[527.8s] mighty one in the earth. Verse n he was
[530.2s] a mighty hunter before the Lord. In
[533.0s] fact, if you read from I was looking at
[534.8s] the translation uh it's the Greek
[536.9s] translation of the Hebrew, it's called
[538.3s] the septtogent. It says he was a mighty
[540.8s] hunter against the Lord. Wherefore it is
[543.8s] said even as Nimrod the mighty hunter
[545.8s] before or again in the septtogent
[547.7s] against the Lord and he and the
[550.2s] beginning of his kingdom was Babel Eric
[553.4s] Akad and Kal uh in the land of Shinus.
[557.0s] He was establishing cities this great
[559.1s] and mighty hunter whose name was Nimrod.
[561.7s] In fact, the name Nimrod is so great
[563.5s] that even that there are some very
[566.0s] interesting theories that surround him
[567.8s] that he was the first one to really
[569.6s] codify the system of sun worship that
[571.9s] him and his wife Seiramis were
[574.1s] considered effectively the sun and the
[576.2s] moon. That when the son himself died
[578.6s] that Seamis somehow um in a strange way
[581.8s] brought forth a son whose name is Tamuz.
[584.5s] And we know in the book of Ezekiel
[586.0s] chapter 8 there there were even rituals
[588.5s] of the weeping for for tamuz that kind
[591.5s] of false heathen system that began in
[594.2s] those systems that were established by
[596.0s] Nimrod. Nimrod the one who typified that
[599.3s] system of rebellion against the Lord.
[601.7s] Rebellion get against God systems very
[604.2s] very early on. That system is a system
[607.0s] we even find today. And this rebellion
[609.3s] is something that God's people must
[611.2s] reject explicitly. You know, uh um even
[615.2s] the lesson actually highlights this that
[617.4s] sometimes um the sin of rebellion can
[620.8s] actually appear to be subtle because it
[622.8s] can be masked in a in a um in the
[625.4s] language of freedom, but it is not true
[627.7s] freedom. It's like almost being free
[629.4s] from air or free from gravity. It's not
[631.0s] freedom. Sometimes those laws are
[632.3s] beneficial and they're good for us.
[634.0s] Oxygen is is is is suppressing us. Yeah.
[637.7s] Supposedly, we need to free ourselves.
[639.2s] Free ourselves from that. But there's no
[641.2s] such thing. as the same way that we are
[643.4s] sort of so to speak shackled by the law
[645.8s] of God. That is not true. It is uh uh it
[648.3s] embraces all things and it is wonderful
[649.8s] and beneficial for us. Nimrod and and
[652.2s] and and the systems and the principles
[654.2s] that he conotes and represents were
[656.0s] those systems of rebellion. God's people
[658.1s] must oppose this rebellion and embrace
[660.3s] the simplicity of trusting in God. Maybe
[663.9s] maybe to take us back uh uh we we have
[667.4s] established that the first dominion was
[669.7s] was set up by God himself and Adam was
[672.4s] was uh was put in charge. Then later on
[675.9s] sin through the devil and temptation
[678.5s] that is somewhere in Genesis chapter 3
[680.1s] we see the fall and as a result of that
[682.6s] Adam and Eve lose uh the uh because of
[687.0s] the the tree of life that was in the
[689.3s] garden of Eden and for God not to
[691.5s] immortalize sinners for sinners not to
[693.7s] live forever they were removed from the
[696.2s] garden and as a result of that the
[698.3s] garden was still there and the Bible
[699.8s] records that there were cherubs that
[701.0s] were put there to guard and so in
[703.1s] essence I would say that the first city
[705.4s] was a city built by God. Amen. The first
[708.2s] city was Eden and and and and I think
[710.8s] even modern day architects are trying to
[713.2s] inculcate nature into you know I I've
[715.7s] seen renewable buildings in Singapore
[718.6s] things like that. Yeah. You're trying of
[721.3s] trying to go back to that original city
[723.8s] that God built. It must have been
[725.6s] wonderful but now it was still there.
[727.8s] And the Bible records if you if I was to
[730.1s] read the quotation from Patrick's and
[731.8s] prophets page 62 that is quoted here
[735.2s] there says the garden of Eden remained
[737.7s] upon the earth long after man had become
[740.1s] an outcast from its pleasant parts.
[743.0s] Hither came Adam and his sons to worship
[745.0s] God. Here they renewed their vows in
[747.3s] obedience to the law uh to that law the
[750.3s] transgression of which had banished them
[752.2s] from Eden. When the tide of iniquity
[754.4s] overspread the the world and the
[756.1s] wickedness of men determined their
[757.6s] destruction by a flood of waters, the
[759.4s] hand that planted the garden of Eden
[761.8s] withdrew it from the earth. But in the
[763.6s] final restitution, when there shall be a
[766.0s] new heaven and a new earth, it shall be
[768.1s] restored more gloriously adorned than at
[770.7s] the beginning. So it's telling us that
[772.8s] the garden stayed there until after the
[775.1s] flood. When the flood was was u came the
[779.3s] garden was was removed and subsequently
[782.1s] hitherto for mankind started building
[784.6s] his own cities and governments and his
[787.5s] own governments and to a certain extent
[789.8s] there were also cities and governments
[791.5s] that came with their own gods and with
[793.4s] their own rules. Yeah, I think that's a
[795.6s] that's a that's an interesting uh
[797.2s] development especially as we speak about
[800.6s] nation building. You know it's it's a
[802.3s] term that many nations like to think
[804.2s] about. When you talk about nation
[805.5s] building, what is the aim of nation
[808.0s] building? Are we simply to build to show
[810.7s] like for example during the cold war
[813.6s] between America and Russia? The glory of
[815.1s] the nation, the glory of of a nation
[816.8s] that actually landed on the moon, you
[818.7s] know, we're actually saying that man is
[820.4s] doing wonderful things, you know, or is
[822.6s] it the glory of God, you know, and so I
[825.4s] think they were actually fighting. Will
[827.4s] America go in first or will Russia go in
[829.6s] first? Yes. Who will put that flag
[831.0s] first? And it's still debatable today
[832.5s] whether they really landed on the moon.
[834.2s] But that's not that's not the the the
[836.7s] point of this discussion. Controversial
[838.2s] brother. But but then we see the same
[840.7s] spirit of Nimrod is echoed in the
[842.8s] nations of today. The same spirit of
[845.0s] Nimrod is echoed in the nations of today
[847.3s] where we're looking to build empires.
[849.6s] But in building these empires, are we
[853.0s] working together with God? Are we also
[855.1s] working to reestablish the image, the
[857.6s] defaced image of God in mankind and in
[860.4s] humanity? Amen. Amen. And this, you
[864.1s] know, you see nations being organized
[866.2s] for the first time after what God had
[868.1s] organized in the Garden of Eden. Then we
[870.0s] see men organizing themselves, putting
[872.3s] together governments. But then we see
[874.6s] God trying to do something else. all to
[877.3s] reestablish from the time when God set
[879.7s] up the garden of Eden, the son of God
[882.7s] who was Adam having dominion and God
[885.1s] being the leader. And here we see as you
[888.1s] have mentioned the governments of men
[890.2s] and men being leaders and men um um
[894.4s] taking rule and ownership even of
[897.5s] worship. We see God trying to still draw
[901.1s] back men to how governments are supposed
[903.6s] to be set up. Maybe if you can take us
[905.5s] through that in how God now after this
[907.6s] nations wicked nations have been
[909.2s] established, how God wanted to Babylon
[912.6s] has been established, Nineveh has been
[914.6s] established, but now God wants to
[916.6s] establish his own nation. What happens?
[919.8s] So when God wants to establish his own
[921.5s] nation, he calls a man outside of these
[925.2s] cities. He calls a man by the name of
[927.6s] Abraham in the book of uh Genesis
[930.0s] chapter 12. and he called this man and I
[932.7s] think maybe God might might have paused
[935.1s] and looked at at at men at that
[937.5s] particular point and and grace found
[941.0s] Abraham to have fit a particular a
[944.9s] particular standard that God required.
[946.9s] There's nothing good in in in in in in
[950.0s] Abraham more than other men. It's simply
[952.2s] the outworking of grace and how he
[954.7s] responded to the leadings of grace in
[957.5s] his heart. something something perhaps
[960.0s] maybe I would dare to to help us sort of
[963.9s] um have some holy imagination when it
[967.0s] comes to the when God was calling sister
[968.7s] white we're told that he had actually
[970.7s] called other men before calling the lady
[973.2s] heen force and uh and I think William
[975.4s] Foy William but they refused could it be
[978.6s] possible perhaps there were others who
[979.8s] were called before Abraham and it is
[981.4s] only Abraham who responded we will never
[983.9s] really know but we see that eventually
[986.3s] when God wants to do a new thing when
[988.6s] God wants to to to sort of come back
[991.4s] into society, a society that that is
[993.6s] forgetting him, a society that is
[995.2s] organizing and and and and and mushling
[997.8s] themselves together against him and and
[1000.2s] and and well nigh obliterating his
[1002.7s] memory uh from from from the earth from
[1005.5s] the face of the earth. He calls a man
[1007.8s] called Abraham and he calls this man
[1010.2s] Abraham in the book of Genesis 12 verse
[1013.2s] 1-9 and uh and he calls him and tells
[1017.1s] him to leave his people to leave uh
[1020.2s] familiar environments to a land where he
[1022.9s] will show him and when he goes there he
[1025.0s] will make him um um he calls a father of
[1028.2s] many nations. Yes, that's that's that's
[1031.1s] very interesting. Let me just uh what
[1033.4s] was the desire? Why would God want to
[1035.8s] separate Abraham from what from the
[1038.1s] nations where he was dwelling? Why would
[1040.4s] God want to separate and how did what
[1042.0s] God want to set this up? Thank you. It's
[1044.6s] actually because God was trying to
[1047.0s] establish a people after his own. I
[1049.8s] think we fail to appreciate that
[1051.7s] Abraham's descendants, not descendants,
[1054.3s] ancestors were heathen worshippers. And
[1056.8s] God needed somebody to be a a separate
[1061.2s] from from those systems that were around
[1064.1s] that was a totally utterly and unique uh
[1067.3s] individual. In fact, until later on, we
[1070.2s] actually speak God actually commands
[1072.4s] Abraham and says, "I see that you have
[1074.5s] commanded your household after you."
[1078.1s] Because it's so strange given that that
[1080.2s] he comes from like um a heathen area and
[1083.2s] a heathen nation. I think they used to
[1084.6s] worship the moon. Yeah. The father used
[1086.7s] to be a moon worshipper. Exactly. So, so
[1089.4s] God is trying to establish this system,
[1091.4s] this principle that is unique. In fact,
[1094.0s] that's why the blessing of Abraham is is
[1096.6s] so much to it's almost like God is
[1098.6s] carving out an entirely different
[1099.8s] people. He's saying that from you shall
[1102.4s] come out thousands, millions. Separate
[1105.0s] ye yourselves. I think we mentioned it
[1107.0s] in the last week. Come ye out. Come God
[1109.6s] called him out. And what was going to be
[1112.6s] what was going to make this new nation
[1114.3s] that God is setting up different? How
[1116.0s] was it going to be different from what
[1118.0s] he was setting up from what other
[1120.0s] nations had set up? what was going to be
[1121.8s] their key differentiator uh brother
[1124.4s] Rafael indeed it is significant that we
[1127.9s] are told Nimrod established Babylon and
[1130.6s] part of the territory of Babylon is also
[1132.6s] Ur of the Caldans you know the Caldans
[1134.9s] were almost synonymous with the
[1136.2s] Babylonians. So you can you can say that
[1139.3s] in a in a hidden environment God calls
[1142.4s] Abraham and he calls him he calls him so
[1146.1s] that he can he can bless him. In fact,
[1148.0s] the way he says he he says a number of
[1150.6s] things. He says, "I will make you a
[1152.4s] great nation. I will bless you and I
[1155.1s] will make your name great." And he says
[1157.8s] through him, he will bless all the
[1160.2s] families of the earth. And that
[1162.6s] redemption was going to come through
[1164.8s] Abraham. It is consistent with the
[1166.8s] promise in Genesis 3 and:15 in that God
[1170.2s] had promised that after the fall that he
[1172.2s] would bring a seed and this seed was
[1175.2s] going to be born that Christ was going
[1176.8s] to be born. God was going to be come of
[1179.0s] the flesh and he was going to God has to
[1181.2s] establish a lineage. He's he has to
[1183.4s] establish so quote unquote a church
[1185.3s] through which his son was going to come
[1187.5s] and be born and eventually die for the
[1189.7s] sins of of of of of all of us. And one
[1193.8s] of the first founding fathers of this
[1195.6s] church is this man Abraham as he has
[1197.9s] been called. But what made what makes a
[1200.4s] nation different from another nation?
[1202.5s] What makes the laws of the nation? The
[1204.6s] laws of the nations. So maybe we can
[1206.3s] just go through that especially as
[1207.8s] portrayed in the book of Deuteronomy of
[1210.0s] what made this nation that God was
[1212.1s] setting up different from the other
[1213.8s] nations. What would make them powerful
[1216.1s] and beautiful from what from what Nimrod
[1219.6s] had set up? For example, uh it's found
[1221.6s] in the book of Deuteronomy. We are asked
[1223.4s] to consider
[1225.1s] Deuteronomy 4:5-9.
[1227.9s] Deuteronomy chapter 4 verse 5-9. And the
[1231.6s] unique aspect that we find uh in this
[1234.7s] text is that unlike other nations and
[1237.9s] their gods, this was a nation I would
[1241.1s] say almost like when when when when um
[1243.9s] when uh when they were saying the PC
[1246.2s] becomes personal when HP was uh was
[1248.5s] launching laptops, you know, uh and and
[1250.5s] and and the PCs become this was God
[1252.6s] becoming personal like it was unique
[1255.0s] that God was near to Israel. In fact, he
[1258.5s] tells them that he if they obey the
[1261.3s] things that he has taught them, if they
[1263.4s] do the things that he has taught them,
[1264.9s] that this will be their wisdom and their
[1266.9s] understanding. And and this was a
[1269.4s] personal god, an intimate god. At a time
[1272.2s] when gods were scandalous, at a time
[1274.6s] when if you read about the gods of the
[1276.2s] Greeks of the mythological gods, these
[1278.7s] were gods who were asking for child
[1281.4s] worship, child sacrifices. This was a
[1283.6s] god who says, "Lo, I am close to you. I
[1286.6s] will protect you. I will provide for you
[1288.8s] and I love you. It was it was a totally
[1291.4s] different concept of God as opposed to
[1294.2s] the gods of the pagans and and God was
[1296.7s] telling them that he will be their
[1298.2s] wisdom and their understanding and that
[1300.2s] their strength and that the other
[1301.5s] nations will be able to come to them and
[1303.8s] see a difference and in in a sense God
[1306.6s] is saying that I will be the difference
[1309.1s] the other nations will say who is this
[1311.1s] nation that is so wise that's so great
[1313.7s] and so great and the secret will be what
[1316.5s] because they do they taught of God and
[1319.1s] beyond being taught they obey and they
[1321.1s] do the things that God has instructed
[1323.0s] them to do. Very interesting that they
[1325.5s] said that the nations will call them
[1327.4s] wise. You know, you remember the queen
[1329.1s] of Sheba traveling all the way to come
[1331.6s] and like what is this great nation? You
[1334.2s] know, um actually also during Hezekiah's
[1336.7s] time, nations traveling to come and see
[1338.5s] what just happened to the son. The other
[1340.8s] nations when they also traveled from
[1343.4s] Egypt, all the other nations were scared
[1345.3s] of them. Remember what Rahab said? We
[1347.9s] heard what your God has done. And like
[1350.8s] what nation is this that is so wise, so
[1353.0s] understanding? What made them wise? What
[1355.4s] made them um beautiful before the
[1357.3s] nations? The laws of God. The statutes
[1360.5s] that were very unique that God gave
[1362.4s] them. And you know, you might look at
[1363.7s] the statutes that God has given you
[1365.2s] today. You want to throw them say, "Oh,
[1366.7s] this is a cake. This is weird. This is
[1369.4s] this is old time. This is this has been
[1371.8s] this the time the time this is not the
[1374.6s] time for these things." Oh, let me tell
[1376.5s] you this is actually what makes you as a
[1378.9s] Christian beautiful. This is what
[1381.3s] separates you from the rest of the
[1383.0s] world. But did the did the children of
[1385.5s] Israel appreciate this God as their
[1387.6s] leader? Did they want appreciate this?
[1390.9s] Not too far from there in the book of 1
[1393.0s] Samuel chapter 8. We see them crying out
[1397.4s] to God. And in particular in verse 7,
[1400.9s] they come and they they they are um they
[1405.0s] are making a lot of noise and they are
[1407.1s] bothering Samuel and they tell uh the
[1409.6s] elders come to Samuel and they say um I
[1413.1s] will read verse 4 and 5 says, "Then all
[1416.4s] the elders of Israel gathered together
[1418.7s] and came to Samuel a trauma and they
[1421.0s] said to him, behold you have grown old
[1423.6s] and your sons do not walk in your ways.
[1426.4s] now appoint a king for us to judge us
[1431.1s] like what? Like all the other nations.
[1434.1s] They wanted to to to look like the other
[1437.3s] nations. A question that I would ask um
[1439.3s] love if you can just uh talk to us about
[1441.6s] this. Why was this an act of rebellion
[1444.2s] when they went to ask for a king?
[1446.7s] Because they already had a king. Uh king
[1449.6s] means what? The the the the ruler, the
[1452.0s] one who's like the um um whose word is
[1454.6s] the ultimate word. That was so basically
[1457.8s] when they're saying give us a king,
[1459.9s] they're basically saying we want
[1461.8s] somebody other than this one. And in
[1463.9s] fact, God in fact would say they're not
[1466.2s] rejecting you somewhere. I remember he
[1468.0s] was actually so depressed. He cried and
[1470.4s] he went to God because it's like relax.
[1472.9s] It's not you they are rejecting. Verse
[1474.2s] seven, it says they have not rejected
[1476.2s] thee, but they have rejected me that I
[1478.6s] should reign over them. They rebelled
[1480.8s] against God himself. They did not want
[1483.3s] God to be their ruler. they they refused
[1486.4s] the leadership of God. Could you be
[1488.4s] refusing the leadership of God today and
[1490.2s] saying ah I think you know we do not
[1492.6s] like the way this and this is happening
[1494.6s] would prefer to have another leader
[1496.9s] would prefer to have another leader but
[1499.0s] God desires to be the leader of his
[1501.7s] people. God wanted to be the leader of
[1503.8s] his people. What are some of the
[1505.2s] warnings that God gave them? When you
[1507.0s] have a king this is what will happen.
[1509.2s] What are some of those things that they
[1510.8s] were warned about? Indeed, the Bible
[1512.6s] records in verse 11, and he says the
[1515.0s] following to these people. And this will
[1517.1s] be the manner of the king that shall
[1519.0s] reign over you. He shall take your sons
[1521.6s] and your daughters, your sons rather,
[1523.7s] and appoint them for himself for his
[1525.8s] chariots to be his horsemen and some
[1527.8s] shall run before his chariots. It's akin
[1529.8s] to today uh military conscription as
[1532.9s] well as uh in any presidential entrage.
[1535.6s] You see those guys who run before you
[1537.6s] know those are sons and daughters of of
[1539.0s] of other people, you know, and and
[1541.5s] they're preparing the way for the king
[1543.1s] or for the president, for the monarch,
[1544.8s] for the ruler. And and God is it's
[1547.4s] almost like word for word what is
[1548.9s] happening today. You know, it says some
[1551.4s] shall run before his chariots. And it
[1553.4s] says in verse 12, "And they shall
[1555.1s] appoint him captains over thousands and
[1556.9s] captains over 50s, and they will set
[1559.6s] them to ear his ground, you know, and to
[1563.1s] reap his harvest and to make his
[1565.4s] instruments of war and instruments of
[1567.8s] his chariots. He shall take them and
[1570.4s] employ them, you know, to the military
[1572.3s] to to to to the to warfare, you know,
[1575.4s] and and and and this he will take all
[1578.0s] all these to your daughters. He says
[1579.9s] they will be cooks, you know, they will
[1582.4s] be to to highlight that point of verse
[1584.5s] 12, think about how there are some wars
[1587.7s] that have resulted in the h the death of
[1591.3s] tens or hundreds of millions and the
[1593.3s] cause is just one person's ego. Like one
[1595.9s] person is just egotistical, the pride of
[1597.5s] the king. Yeah, one person is
[1598.9s] egotistical and because of one person's
[1601.0s] ego, because three people cannot agree
[1603.0s] on something, then they decide to fight.
[1605.8s] Let's send our young people to fight and
[1607.4s] then they settle. Whoever whoever of us
[1609.5s] whose military is stronger carries the
[1612.6s] day. Yes. And that's actually I think
[1614.3s] what he's saying here that that those
[1616.8s] instruments of all will be his. So
[1619.3s] they'll be the king's instrument, not
[1620.7s] God's instruments. And so it'll be at
[1622.3s] the whim of the king. The king is like,
[1623.7s] "Oh, this person or this political or
[1625.8s] this dramatic thing." And all of a
[1627.5s] sudden, people's lives are are are
[1629.7s] actually in jeopardy because of that.
[1631.5s] Like literally, he will have the fate
[1633.7s] and the futures of their of their of of
[1635.8s] of their children and even of themselves
[1638.3s] in his hands to do with as he pleases,
[1641.0s] as he is led. Yes. Clearly you can see
[1644.3s] that God wanted to be the ruler of his
[1647.7s] people of and and and and even of his
[1651.5s] church as he's establishing his own
[1653.5s] nation. He wants to be that ruler. And
[1656.5s] he says he's not establishing a king so
[1658.2s] that you can serve him so that you can
[1660.2s] you so that you can all be subservient
[1662.2s] to him. It is very different when God is
[1664.7s] ruling over us. Indeed something
[1666.7s] interesting. It says uh in verse 13 it
[1668.4s] says he will take your daughters to make
[1670.4s] confectionaries maybe like um uh pastry
[1672.6s] chefs or something to be cooks and to be
[1674.6s] b bears. And it continues in verse 14 he
[1677.6s] will take your fields and your vineyards
[1679.8s] and your olive even the best of them and
[1683.0s] give them to his servants. He's going to
[1685.4s] be rewarding his cronies. He's going to
[1688.0s] that there are some people who will
[1689.4s] suffer loss of property. A story the
[1691.8s] story of Ahab and this Nabot and his
[1695.0s] vineard. God did not want the he saw
[1698.2s] what happens when one man is put over in
[1702.0s] charge over the affairs of other men.
[1704.0s] God wanted to lead them himself. It was
[1706.0s] going to be a theocracy. God was the one
[1708.2s] who's going to to to to lead and he's
[1710.6s] the one who ultimately give that which
[1713.0s] is called true justice. All all manner
[1716.5s] all forms of justice here on earth have
[1718.4s] got some biases. There are people who
[1720.2s] through the loopholes of our legal
[1721.8s] system as tight as we want to to to make
[1723.8s] it to be. So there are definitely some
[1726.4s] innocent men who are serving time. These
[1728.7s] are the situations and scenarios that
[1730.4s] God wanted to do away with if he himself
[1733.3s] was going to lead. Unfortunately, they
[1735.5s] refused to be led by an invisible God.
[1738.3s] Amen. Amen. When a holy God wants to
[1741.9s] lead sinners, you will find sinners
[1744.7s] desiring to lead other sinners. All the
[1747.1s] consequences of that. And God warned of
[1749.5s] this. He said even beyond other nations
[1752.2s] being led by sinners. I want to warn you
[1755.2s] of this that this does not happen in our
[1758.2s] churches, even with the church. Maybe
[1760.5s] you can just take us that as we go into
[1762.6s] the Wednesday part about God's desire
[1765.8s] for him to even remain the supreme ruler
[1769.4s] of the church. Thank you. Uh this is
[1772.2s] something that Jesus Christ actually
[1774.6s] said because he noted you know the
[1776.6s] desire for supremacy that you're talking
[1778.1s] about is a desire that is common to all
[1780.2s] of humanity. In fact in the hierarchy of
[1783.0s] sins uh the seven deadly sins so to
[1785.7s] speak what is normally at the top. It's
[1787.1s] not even greed or lust or something. It
[1789.0s] is pride. It is the the desire to place
[1791.7s] oneself as a god as a king over other
[1794.3s] people. And that is what was present
[1796.7s] even among the disciples of Jesus
[1798.6s] Christ. those who you would think you
[1800.1s] know that humility of Christ would drop
[1801.9s] off on them. It was present up until the
[1805.5s] very point of the death of Jesus Christ.
[1807.4s] So it's not very it's it's actually not
[1809.7s] something very new. For a long time,
[1811.8s] human beings have been striving to rule
[1814.0s] over each other. Everyone wants to be a
[1816.2s] ruler. Everyone's striving for the
[1817.5s] master for the mastery. Thank you so
[1819.3s] much. So in the book of Matthew 20 25-28
[1823.5s] um uh uh uh in fact um uh there's
[1826.3s] actually a story of not a story um a
[1829.6s] description of the two sons of Zebedee.
[1832.8s] And apparently they had gotten their
[1834.4s] mother to try and ask Jesus, you know,
[1836.3s] we want this person to be the minister
[1838.1s] of the the treasury and then this other
[1840.8s] person to be the the minister of the
[1842.7s] entire security. They were negotiating
[1844.6s] for for position for the high
[1846.8s] position the cabinet of of heaven in the
[1849.4s] kingdom. And then verse 24 when the
[1852.2s] disciples here it's all that they
[1853.8s] castigate and say oh no sons of Zebedee
[1855.7s] you should be humble. It's like no
[1857.3s] you're taking my place. I was the one
[1859.1s] who supposed to take this uh this office
[1861.1s] and this position like you guys are
[1862.3s] trying to cut us off. Some of us came
[1864.6s] first. We came first. We were called
[1865.9s] first. You called number three number
[1867.2s] four. So something like that. And it
[1869.2s] says verse 24, when the 10 had it, they
[1871.6s] were moved with indignation against the
[1873.5s] two brethren. But Jesus called them unto
[1875.6s] him and says, you know that, and I'm
[1878.2s] reading again from Matthew 20 from verse
[1881.6s] 25-28. But Jesus called unto him and
[1884.0s] said, you know that the princes of the
[1886.2s] Gentiles exercise dominion over them,
[1888.8s] and they that are great exercise
[1890.6s] authority upon them. Think about
[1891.9s] everyone who is called the great. You
[1893.6s] know, somebody whose last name, like
[1895.0s] you, my last name is Rono. I'm not
[1896.8s] called Jaffith the great but we have
[1898.6s] Alexander the great I don't know
[1900.0s] Frederick the great who so those people
[1901.8s] are the great why because they exercise
[1904.2s] authority over other people and people
[1906.4s] look up to them as you know great people
[1909.4s] who have done magnificent things so to
[1911.4s] speak you know like fits of of of of a
[1914.3s] unique nature verse 26 but this shall
[1917.4s] not be so among you that Christ's
[1920.0s] kingdom his systems do not are not like
[1922.6s] the systems of the world whosoever will
[1924.7s] be great among you Peter the great, h
[1927.6s] Judas the great, James the great, let
[1930.2s] him be your minister. Amen. Let him be
[1932.5s] your servant. You know the word minister
[1933.8s] we have forgotten. Minister actually
[1935.1s] means servant. Doesn't mean highly paid
[1937.3s] uh government official. Minister
[1939.2s] actually just means servant. Whosoever
[1941.6s] will be chief among you. Uh verse 27,
[1944.5s] let him be your servant. Verse 28, even
[1947.4s] as the son of man came not to be
[1949.8s] ministered unto but to minister and to
[1952.9s] give his life a ransom for many. And so
[1956.8s] here we find that Christ is saying that
[1959.1s] humility is what gospel should desire
[1961.8s] and not greatness which you could see
[1963.4s] was even inherent in Christ's closest
[1965.6s] disciples. It was so it was so
[1967.5s] fundamental that it is a sin that must
[1969.5s] be rebuked everywhere. And the worst
[1971.7s] part is pride is like an invisible sin.
[1973.9s] You know sometimes you can see the
[1975.3s] consequences of fornication. Other times
[1977.1s] you can't see it but it is visible. You
[1979.4s] know you can see greed sometimes but
[1981.2s] then pride pride can be hidden. In fact
[1983.4s] pride can be the one that is condemning
[1985.4s] lust. It can be the one that is
[1986.7s] condemning greed but it is the it is the
[1988.8s] most insidious of these uh sins because
[1991.6s] it is it is almost your partaking of the
[1993.8s] very spirit of the great acrebel and the
[1996.8s] great deceiver himself Satan. Amen.
[1999.7s] Amen. Let me just ask you, how is this
[2002.1s] being manifest today between one
[2004.6s] another? How are we as Christians show
[2007.4s] lifting up ourselves and not choosing to
[2009.3s] serve one another? Whether in this in
[2011.4s] our churches today or even outside here?
[2014.2s] Indeed, I think um the spirit of
[2017.1s] servantthood, servant, servant
[2019.1s] leadership uh is lacking. You know, we
[2022.8s] all want the best positions. You know,
[2025.4s] if there's a music Sabbath, people
[2027.0s] scramble. You don't even consider those
[2028.7s] who are pregnant, those who have
[2029.9s] children and and everybody gets gets the
[2032.6s] the the the top places, you know, and we
[2035.4s] we not consider it about our neighbors.
[2037.9s] Um and indeed the love of many has grown
[2040.4s] cold. But Christ was trying to remind us
[2042.4s] and to teach us that in his kingdom it
[2044.9s] is actually uh the one who is serves
[2048.1s] that is great. Amen. He gives us the
[2049.8s] example of he himself you know when he
[2051.8s] washed his disciples feet when he when
[2054.1s] he condescended and came and put on the
[2057.0s] gab of humanity. Christ is speaking to
[2059.4s] us that indeed we should be considered
[2061.4s] with one another that if you are being
[2063.3s] selected to be a deacon. It is it is not
[2065.6s] a position for you to lord over others
[2067.9s] but rather it is an opportunity to serve
[2070.2s] with fa with with in faithfulness and in
[2072.6s] love to be an to to assist. You know, if
[2075.4s] you're given a position to be an elder,
[2077.4s] you're not supposed you're not called to
[2078.7s] be a dictator. If you're called to be a
[2080.8s] pastor, a conference leader in in this
[2083.4s] in in any area of service in the kingdom
[2086.4s] of God, you're supposed to to to to be
[2089.4s] one of the most the meicst of the meek
[2091.9s] and and and and serve with with utmost
[2094.3s] faithfulness. Even uh uh when you're
[2096.6s] called to be a boss somewhere, you have
[2099.0s] power, you uh you're a doctor, whatever
[2101.7s] your profession is, we're supposed to
[2105.0s] give service to humanity in a way that
[2107.6s] is different that they can be able to
[2109.2s] say indeed this is a nation that is
[2111.9s] wise. This is an wise and understanding
[2114.2s] people. These are there something
[2115.8s] different. And when they ask about it,
[2118.0s] you tell them it's because we have
[2119.8s] learned from he who is the king of kings
[2121.7s] and the lord of lords. He who humbled
[2123.9s] himself and took upon himself as Paul
[2126.8s] writes in Philippians, even the gab of
[2129.9s] mankind and went all the way and died on
[2132.4s] the cross for you and I as an example of
[2134.8s] true leadership, servant leadership that
[2137.1s] works for the people and um not for
[2140.6s] self. You know Christ writes and says
[2142.4s] that I came to minister not to be
[2144.8s] ministered unto. He says I am he that
[2147.0s] serveth. He comes to serve. But how did
[2149.8s] the church now corrupt itself? this
[2152.3s] church which Christ established on the
[2154.3s] basis and the foundation of service. How
[2156.3s] did it corrupt itself and start crying
[2158.3s] out like the children of Israel, we want
[2160.5s] a king to be like other nations? Thank
[2163.0s] you so much. So what happened was as as
[2165.6s] I said this desire is so inherent that
[2168.2s] the disciples had it. Christ uh rebuked
[2170.8s] uh this desire several times. Matthew
[2172.8s] 23:8 Christ says, "Be not called rabbi,
[2176.4s] for one is your master, even Christ's
[2179.0s] and all ye are brethren." All ye are
[2182.2s] brethren. Unfortunately, h after the
[2184.5s] persecution um that we described and we
[2187.1s] discussed in detail um last week um and
[2190.1s] the church grasped at the power that
[2193.1s] this emperor called Constantine was
[2195.0s] giving to the church. You know, the
[2196.6s] church has stopped being persecuted. The
[2198.6s] church has stopped being an unofficial
[2200.6s] and illegal religion. It has become
[2202.7s] first of all an accepted religion.
[2204.8s] Secondly, the official religion of the
[2207.4s] Roman Empire. Then all of a sudden they
[2210.5s] start grasping for power. They start
[2212.3s] grasping for control. They start asking
[2214.2s] for the power of the state to execute
[2215.8s] and to deal with their problems. And
[2218.2s] then people in the church start being
[2219.9s] given positions of significant
[2222.2s] authority. The church starts looking to
[2224.1s] the state to see how the state has a
[2226.0s] very strict hierarchy. We read here all
[2228.4s] ye are what? All ye are brethren. In the
[2231.0s] scriptures the the position of a of of
[2234.4s] um of a bishop which is actually um in
[2236.9s] several places and this is h this this
[2239.2s] may sound very controversial. It is
[2240.5s] interchanged with elder several times in
[2242.2s] the in the writings is actually it is
[2245.4s] not like a high position. It's not like
[2247.0s] a small god or a demigod. It's just a
[2249.0s] brother who has a particular
[2251.0s] responsibility position. Exactly. Some
[2253.1s] some sort of responsibility. But then
[2254.6s] here all of a sudden they came a
[2257.0s] hierarchy the bishops the deacons and
[2260.1s] the the the lady and then even the idea
[2263.0s] of lady began to be established and the
[2265.4s] clergy those are the high positions
[2267.1s] archbishop yeah and so and so so forth
[2269.4s] and then you end up with these
[2270.6s] hierarchies and and and and let's say
[2273.6s] you know um this church New Life um
[2276.2s] establishes a small Sabbath school and
[2278.1s] then suddenly the Sabbath school starts
[2279.5s] looking up to New Life and let's say the
[2281.8s] bishop of New Life is seen as the
[2283.7s] overseer of these others and he's the
[2285.8s] overseer of and so all of a sudden that
[2288.0s] that hierarchy seeped in up until there
[2291.0s] were four centers of authority in um in
[2293.9s] Rome in Constantinople in Antioch and in
[2296.6s] Alexandria and then these bishops
[2298.6s] themselves were seen as superior among
[2301.0s] the lower ones and then even among them
[2303.8s] there was a striving after authority and
[2306.2s] who is the most supreme one in the Bible
[2308.3s] there's no hierarchy of the bishop of
[2310.2s] Galatia versus the bishop of Corinth
[2312.6s] there's no such But then as time
[2314.5s] progresses as that thing of pride we
[2316.5s] we're talking about is like the
[2317.7s] disciples fighting striving for the
[2319.1s] master striving that fighting I want to
[2320.6s] be the minister of this yeah but
[2322.3s] minister in the sense of not not serving
[2324.4s] but in the cabinet. So um all of a
[2327.4s] sudden the bishop of Rome because Rome
[2329.8s] was the center gains the supremacy and
[2332.4s] then and and and with that all manner of
[2335.1s] of of of of challenge actually enter it.
[2338.2s] First of all, that bishop gains the
[2339.9s] authority and the power to persecute
[2341.7s] those who at least that individual see
[2344.4s] feels h do not think and do not listen
[2347.2s] in a way that is in line with that
[2348.8s] person's will. And then all of a sudden
[2350.8s] this strict hierarchy which is utterly
[2352.5s] unbiblical becomes an instrument of
[2354.7s] persecuting God's people throughout
[2357.5s] history. And and and even you could see
[2360.0s] the past bishops of Rome who themselves
[2362.2s] were not supreme would have condemned
[2364.6s] what eventually happened to that
[2366.2s] particular office and all the other sins
[2368.6s] that came in. Suddenly Mary becomes
[2371.0s] almost like a patron in a sense of that
[2373.1s] office. Suddenly uh uh the idea of
[2375.7s] idolatry becomes sanctioned because
[2377.6s] different churches are are discussing
[2379.0s] and arguing and then they come to one
[2380.7s] individual the bishop of Rome to say um
[2383.0s] what is the right doctrine on this issue
[2384.6s] and he speaks suddenly the bishop speaks
[2387.2s] excedra that he speaks from a special
[2389.5s] throne and a special office that is
[2391.0s] unique and above all others. Suddenly
[2393.8s] the bishop becomes the the prince of
[2396.5s] apostles you know um you know h because
[2399.8s] supposedly Peter was the prince of
[2401.3s] apostles and he is he is the first pope
[2403.8s] they say yeah so to speak which is not
[2405.9s] really the case yeah but but but so so
[2408.6s] so so he said that he becomes the head
[2412.4s] in a sense he becomes even the vicar the
[2415.6s] representative of Jesus Christ on earth
[2418.4s] so that as Christ had all ultimate
[2420.9s] authority of heaven earth and everything
[2423.2s] under the earth. Then suddenly the vicar
[2425.4s] of Christ is crowned with a triple crown
[2428.3s] and and and and receives in himself the
[2430.7s] highest form of blasphemy. And how does
[2432.9s] arise? Not from some alien principle but
[2435.7s] from this principle of not embracing
[2438.1s] humility that Christ is strongly
[2440.5s] desirous that his people should embrace.
[2443.6s] Very sad. And that office became a very
[2445.8s] corrupt office. the the office of the
[2448.3s] papacy who was going to be pope became
[2450.9s] if you read history it will tell you
[2453.2s] that people ended up um buying that
[2456.4s] office they give money to buy the was
[2458.8s] called but we just did it anyway yes
[2461.2s] people will be killed so that someone
[2463.1s] can take that office at some point I
[2465.1s] think in history we know of the history
[2466.5s] when we actually had three pops and they
[2469.0s] were all fighting for supremacy and they
[2472.1s] want to be the leaders they want to be
[2473.8s] the ones who are being served they want
[2476.2s] to collect get all the monies from the
[2478.1s] regions and they want to um acquire so
[2480.9s] much wealth and so much control. So such
[2484.4s] a big contrast to what God wanted to
[2487.0s] establish and to how Christ actually led
[2489.9s] his own church, how Christ led his own
[2492.3s] church today. Maybe I'd ask a question.
[2494.1s] You know, sometimes it's easy to to talk
[2495.8s] about history and and and and other
[2498.5s] organizations. Then what about us as the
[2501.0s] 7th Adventist church? As as we moved
[2505.2s] from a movement and we got organized, is
[2508.2s] it possible that perhaps there are
[2509.9s] pitfalls that some could say that have
[2512.9s] come uh with organization? Is it
[2515.5s] possible that perhaps we similarly are
[2518.2s] developing a hier a hierarchical system
[2521.4s] uh in which then we view others as
[2524.6s] greater superior believers than than
[2527.3s] than ourselves and just calls to mind
[2530.4s] and ask ourselves when Christ called his
[2532.4s] disciples is it do we see anywhere
[2535.1s] instances where he elevates some more
[2537.4s] than others? Uh I I I don't think so. I
[2540.6s] think uh the reality of history is there
[2544.8s] to educate us in our days and in our
[2546.8s] times that we similarly shouldn't fall
[2549.0s] to similar pitfalls because it's a
[2550.7s] reality that sometimes in certain
[2552.2s] churches you find just because you've
[2553.8s] been made an elder does not mean that
[2555.7s] you are better than others you know just
[2558.3s] because you have been made maybe a head
[2560.7s] elder and sometimes you find people
[2563.4s] breaking
[2564.8s] because whoever my candidate whoever I I
[2568.2s] wanted to to be to sort of be in
[2570.9s] leadership has not occupied and and
[2572.9s] sometimes sad to say we find uh
[2576.3s] congregations uh breaking down along
[2579.2s] tribal lines you know along so economic
[2581.8s] uh stratifications and it is sad and so
[2584.7s] it simply calls us to once again
[2587.0s] introspect also as we study the history
[2589.3s] of Israel are we today looking more to
[2592.6s] men than to Christ asking for give me a
[2595.2s] king are we perhaps looking you know for
[2598.6s] example
[2599.6s] uh you when we when when when when when
[2602.0s] as a church you reject a minister uh or
[2606.1s] when as a church for one reason or
[2607.9s] another, you know, uh we need to we need
[2610.2s] to to to introspect and ask ourselves,
[2612.6s] are we perhaps uh looking at the history
[2615.3s] of the people of the Roman church, the
[2617.4s] Catholic Church, but then are there
[2619.5s] lessons that we can learn for ourselves
[2621.3s] since we organized maybe uh as panelists
[2624.6s] uh as the Adventist church. You know the
[2627.4s] system of the papacy is not
[2629.7s] the unique to them. It is the principles
[2633.1s] that runs within that system is the
[2635.0s] principles that hand within the sinful
[2636.9s] heart of man. We the desire for
[2639.2s] supremacy where men have organized. Yes.
[2641.5s] And so how can we put in check this
[2643.4s] desire for supremacy? Actually you know
[2645.4s] I you've just reminded me recently I
[2647.2s] attended holy communion in a particular
[2649.0s] church and the elder particularly
[2652.9s] refused to be served by a deacon by an
[2656.2s] ordained deacon refused to accept could
[2659.1s] only be served by the pastor. So the the
[2662.8s] deacon was confused, went once, went
[2664.7s] twice, went, came back again and there
[2666.8s] was a lot of confusion at the front and
[2668.6s] even the pastor was confused what is
[2670.5s] happening because the the the the deacon
[2673.5s] is beneath me. I cannot be served by a
[2676.4s] deacon. We we are indeed looking for um
[2680.0s] um to be to to to rise above to show
[2682.6s] that we are we are better the mastery
[2685.4s] over the other but who is the greatest
[2688.0s] in the kingdom of God. Yeah. Yeah. So um
[2690.9s] I would actually say it is true when you
[2692.6s] look at the history of of of the church
[2694.5s] when you look at the history of Israel
[2695.8s] it is not for us to to to try and puff
[2698.8s] ourselves up and say look at them look
[2700.2s] at their sins it's for us to realize by
[2702.1s] the it could be us except for grace and
[2704.9s] except for God transforming us day by
[2707.0s] day. So to your question how can we keep
[2709.2s] that from happening I would say we go
[2711.1s] back to the cross we need to be
[2712.6s] converted as individuals and as a
[2714.6s] church. A church that is filled with the
[2716.4s] Holy Spirit will embrace the principles
[2718.9s] of the Holy Spirit will have the fruit
[2720.2s] of the Holy Spirit. One of which is
[2721.9s] humility. So and and in that humility it
[2724.8s] will destroy even that desire for
[2726.5s] supremacy. We will see in each other
[2728.6s] brothers all ye are brethren. All ye are
[2731.4s] brethren. It was actually um I don't
[2733.4s] have the quotation here um where uh the
[2735.5s] spirit of prophecy Ellen White was very
[2737.3s] much commending that we stop calling
[2739.0s] each other elder you know elder to say
[2741.8s] brother testimonies to the church volume
[2743.7s] one I cannot remember the exact passage
[2745.5s] but it testimonies to church volume one
[2747.4s] to call each other brother and sister
[2749.4s] why it we appreciate the idea that all
[2752.3s] ye are brethren one in Christ are
[2755.0s] brethren yesdeed and it actually she
[2757.2s] actually says it is a sign it is a sign
[2759.6s] of corruption in the church when you
[2761.2s] find we're not calling each other
[2763.0s] brother so and so and sister so and so
[2765.8s] and we view each other as greater than
[2768.0s] others the spirit of humility but the
[2770.7s] question is why did God set up call
[2773.8s] Israel to be apart what was God's
[2776.0s] intention with Israel what was God's
[2777.7s] intention with a church that is separate
[2779.7s] as well what was God's intention as we
[2781.8s] move on to the Thursday part in the
[2783.7s] midst of the hustle and bustle of
[2785.6s] secularism in the midst of the hustle
[2788.0s] and bustle of men and women trying to
[2790.2s] rank and to better one another. God
[2793.0s] wanted to set up a separate system. A
[2795.8s] system in which all are equal and in
[2798.1s] which all feel equally loved and
[2800.9s] appreciated for their efforts and for
[2803.4s] and and for whatever uh their
[2805.7s] contributions. And so it is for this
[2808.4s] purpose that God creates a church. It is
[2811.6s] for this purpose because indeed in these
[2814.5s] systems where people are loading over
[2816.4s] each other, they are bound to be people
[2818.6s] who are hurt. They are bound to be
[2820.3s] people who are trampled upon. They are
[2821.9s] bound to be people whose needs and wants
[2824.9s] and and and and and whose uh whose whose
[2827.8s] um uh who are neglected in one way or
[2830.8s] another. And so God calls the church,
[2835.0s] you know, through right living to give
[2838.3s] an example, a testimony of what it what
[2841.6s] it entails to truly be a nation under
[2844.6s] God, to be one nation under God. And the
[2847.6s] lesson writer says that believers living
[2849.8s] in harmony with God highlight his
[2851.9s] righteous character which naturally
[2853.8s] leads to conviction and and and ideally
[2856.8s] the lives of people who keep the
[2858.6s] commandments of God now do what? They
[2861.4s] showcase his character. Amen. And so the
[2863.9s] primary purpose for which God
[2865.5s] establishes the nation of Israel was not
[2867.8s] to condemn the rest of the world but to
[2870.3s] save it. Amen. God calls us uh to be
[2873.9s] active. God calls us to be different
[2876.5s] because indeed the world is looking for
[2879.4s] something different. The world is
[2881.0s] looking for an oasis where they can find
[2883.3s] water where they can find rest from the
[2885.4s] striving and the mastery that is all
[2887.4s] around us. And now that we are
[2889.0s] surrounded by many nations, I would say
[2891.0s] nations particularly true nations but
[2893.3s] also many churches. What is the specific
[2896.3s] message that God has given to his church
[2899.9s] for us to be able to reach these
[2901.6s] nations? The message is actually found
[2903.5s] in the book of revelation 18 verse 1-4.
[2907.2s] The message is actually first of all the
[2908.7s] gospel. It is not that there's a new
[2910.7s] special. It is the same gospel. It is
[2913.0s] called in revelation 14 verse1 vers 6
[2916.6s] the everlasting gospel. And then we are
[2919.7s] told in verse 8 come out of her my
[2922.6s] people. And again in Revelation 18 verse
[2925.1s] 1-4 it says that there is a another
[2928.2s] angel flying in the midst of heaven
[2930.4s] having a having being lightened uh with
[2933.7s] great power and he cries mightily
[2936.1s] Babylon is fallen is fallen. And then in
[2938.6s] verse four we are told come out of her
[2941.8s] my people and be not partakers of her
[2944.6s] sins that you receive not of her
[2946.4s] plagues. that God wants us to preach a
[2950.2s] message to call people out of the
[2952.4s] corruptions and the corrupting
[2953.8s] influences or the systems that are
[2955.9s] clearly unbiblical that you can see
[2958.1s] clearly it is a mixture of worldliness
[2960.7s] and Christianity come out of that to to
[2963.7s] the systems that God has established
[2966.0s] which are pure. Amen. Amen. And my
[2968.8s] brother, we've conducted many missions
[2972.1s] um in the past especially when we were
[2974.1s] back in the university. What are some of
[2976.2s] those lessons that you draw? Some of
[2977.9s] those key takeaways that you had when
[2980.0s] you went for mission sites to be a light
[2982.4s] to other nations, to other gentiles, to
[2984.8s] these churches which we say they may not
[2987.0s] have received the very principles that
[2989.3s] God has laid out as a foundation in his
[2991.9s] word. I think ultimately that which is
[2996.0s] the differentiating factor is the
[2998.4s] revelation of God's character in our
[3000.9s] lives. The revelation of God's character
[3002.7s] in our lives. how in the way we we we we
[3005.4s] eat, in the way we uh treat one another,
[3009.3s] you know, in the way we dress, you know,
[3011.6s] it it it is a radical shift, a a
[3015.0s] fundamental change and a rejection of of
[3017.8s] of the norms of the world and and and
[3020.3s] and and embracing of our identity in
[3024.1s] Christ and uh and and being faithful and
[3027.2s] and and and rising up to the occasion
[3029.9s] and and and trying as much as by the
[3033.0s] grace and power of God to meet that
[3035.7s] divine standard that God has put for
[3038.2s] each and every single one of us. And so
[3040.6s] in in the mission field and in our
[3042.6s] lives, it entails keeping the Sabbath
[3045.1s] well. You know, it entails
[3048.1s] um if you're a student, doing your best
[3050.6s] in class, doing your giving your best
[3053.0s] for the master. If you are given a
[3055.1s] position to serve as a prefect, as a as
[3058.3s] a as a as as a leader, not putting your
[3060.9s] needs first, you know, negotiating for
[3063.1s] yourself, uh taking resources that
[3065.4s] should go to to fellow students for your
[3067.8s] own gains, but rather offering selfless
[3070.7s] service, you know, even to the extent of
[3072.6s] even spending your own resources so that
[3074.9s] others may be able to to to to to
[3078.0s] benefit and and in essence living that
[3081.4s] Christian life, being that true and
[3084.2s] Christian living testimony embodying the
[3087.1s] gospel. Amen. Amen. The book of Isaiah
[3091.3s] 42:6 says, "I am the Lord. I have called
[3095.5s] you in righteousness. I will also hold
[3098.8s] you by their hand and watch over you.
[3101.5s] And I will point you as a covenant to
[3105.6s] the people, as a light to the nations."
[3109.7s] God has called us to be alert to the
[3112.9s] Gentiles. To show them the spirit of
[3114.7s] service, to show them the spirit of
[3117.5s] submitting not to men, not to kings, not
[3120.8s] to presidents, not to human beings
[3122.7s] around us, but submitting only to God as
[3126.4s] our true ruler. God has called the
[3128.8s] Seventh Day Adventist Church to go out
[3130.9s] and present the three angels messages as
[3133.7s] that cleaver of truth to cleave out many
[3136.2s] other people from the minds of this
[3138.8s] world to bring them to the light of the
[3141.1s] truth. God has called you. Thank you so
[3143.9s] much for joining us today. I want to
[3145.8s] just give my brothers a few minutes to
[3148.2s] give us um their key takeaway points so
[3151.4s] that you know what were the key
[3152.5s] takeaways for this lesson even as we
[3154.8s] close. Thank you. I think for me the key
[3157.7s] takeaways is that the systems that
[3160.7s] Christ is establishing are systems based
[3163.4s] upon his character
[3165.6s] humility. The Christ likeness includes
[3168.5s] fundamentally humility. We told inh
[3171.9s] Philippians 2:5, "Let this mind be in
[3174.9s] you which was also in Christ Jesus would
[3177.9s] not think it like as people properly
[3179.9s] like a great thing to be to be in God."
[3183.5s] But he took upon himself the form of a
[3185.4s] servant. So almost fundamental to his to
[3188.7s] his mission was humility. Fundamental to
[3191.6s] our experience should be humility. If
[3193.6s] you are struggling with the issue of
[3195.1s] pride, if you are struggling with the
[3197.1s] desire for supremacy, then pray for the
[3199.8s] Holy Spirit to give you that fruits of
[3203.0s] humility as you manifest that character
[3205.3s] of Jesus Christ even today. Amen. Amen.
[3208.3s] Brother Rafael, I would add to what Jaff
[3211.0s] is saying that a cure to pride is
[3213.8s] service. So be involved in service,
[3216.8s] especially selfless service. Go out
[3219.8s] there, visit the children's home. You
[3222.1s] see the things that Christ says entail
[3224.9s] to Christianity to v to visit the widows
[3227.9s] and and and and and the and the and the
[3231.8s] um the orphans in society to visit the
[3234.6s] sick in hospitals to clothe those who
[3237.0s] are naked. You know th that is what it
[3239.2s] entails to truly show Christ. Where
[3242.3s] whereas others are looking to be served
[3244.6s] whereas others are looking at others as
[3247.0s] go as as as inferior and and as
[3250.5s] uneducated. Christ is calling us to
[3252.9s] reach out to the masses and to show them
[3255.0s] and to show them love not because of
[3258.2s] ourselves but because Christ himself has
[3260.8s] first loved us. Amen. Amen. God wants to
[3264.0s] be our ruler. If you have been
[3265.4s] submitting to an elder, a bishop, a
[3268.3s] pope, a pastor, a priest, whoever you've
[3271.3s] been submitting to as your authority,
[3274.0s] submit only to God. Submit only to God.
[3278.1s] Kindly pray with us even as we close.
[3280.3s] Thank you. Let's
[3281.6s] pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for
[3283.8s] the opportunity given us to have this
[3285.5s] study, the study of the nations. uh this
[3288.5s] introductory study we have learned much
[3290.4s] especially about how the systems of the
[3293.0s] world are systems of supremacy
[3295.1s] self-exaltation but the principle of
[3297.0s] heaven is that principle of humanity
[3299.5s] where Jesus Christ from heaven is
[3301.3s] reaching down to earth uh to save us and
[3303.9s] reach down to the lowest point we pray
[3305.8s] for more of your spirit as we seek to
[3307.4s] learn more biblical lessons in Jesus
[3309.4s] name I pray
[3311.2s] amen thank you