Title: Lesson 2 The Genesis Foundation
Video ID: fRLLDuCR_Wg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fRLLDuCR_Wg
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise God and happy Sabbath. Good morning, good evening, good afternoon. Welcome from wherever you're watching us from. This is New Life 7th Day Adventist Church uh Sabbath morning for our lesson study discussion. This week we are going to be studying the Genesis Foundation. This is the second week of the second quarter of this year. It's been an exciting year so far studying the word of God and I want to invite you to study with us. With me I am joined by my friends who will be studying together with us. I will allow them to mention their names and then we will begin. We'll start from this side. Jafet Rono. Thank you. My name is Enongo Rafael Yamiso. It's a pleasure to be here. Wonderful. And my name is Jess Rono. Rafael. Would you kindly pray with us as we start? All right, let's believe and pray. Our kind and loving father and master, we thank you and praise your name for this wonderful opportunity to study your Bible and to give us the principles rather the easy way um the understanding of Bible prophecy. And now as we consider the Genesis foundation, I pray may you grant us your spirit who inspired the writing of your word that you may simplify these things to all who shall hear this message is our prayer in Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen. You know recently there have been many doctrines that have popped up and often times if you have observed what I have observed young people tend to get bored with hearing things that have been repeated over and over again and they want to look for some novelty some new truth that is found in the word of God and they come up with crafts and ideas and doctrines that have not been established in the word of God. And what people most fail to do is go back to when truths were first established. I am excited to be diving into this because Genesis is one of my favorite books. Genesis, the Genesis foundation that all the truths that are especially important for the Christian today. They have already been established in the word of God and especially in the book of beginnings and that is Genesis. We will start by reading our key text today which is one of the truths that we will see how it was first established in the book of Genesis. Um brother uh Jaffet please uh read for us the key text u for this week. Thank you. Uh the key text of the week is John 1 29. Uh and I'm reading from the King James version. It says next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith behold the lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. You know when you first read that text in the book of John you would think why is John talking about a lamb? We have not had any interaction of a lamb in the book of John or even in the book of Matthew at least in the beginnings beginning chapters of Matthew. Then John just opens up and in the first chapter he's talking about the lamb. And we want to help you to know how to study Bible prophecy. And we want to go to very key concepts that are mentioned in the book of Revelation. But before we visit them in the book of Revelation, which we are going to see later on in this lesson as we continue studying out throughout the quarter, we want to go back to Genesis and see when some of those principles were established in Genesis. what did they mean? And so before we go to um even further, I want us to talk about the the the first principle that we are talking about today, the principle of first mentioned when things were first mentioned. So even before we open to revelation, can we go back to Genesis and establish some of those truths? Um my brother would you kindly just walk us through what this principle of first mention is all about as spoken of in in the Monday part and maybe just help us break it down for us to understand how God views truth especially today when people say oh I view it this way and I view it that way but how does God view it? Thank you so much. So uh h as we think about the principle of first mention what does that mean exactly? uh uh if you think about anything that you have ever learned you know um the first time I decided to learn how to cook um I did not try and cook the most uh exquisite or complicated I began with I would call it cooking 101 the basics the most fundamental you know the first meal it was rice and then the second meal was a particular meal that we love in Kenya called chapati mine came out like a cookie but I enjoyed it very much you see that's how I think we would learn to uh understand things in the Bible In the book of Genesis, you find first mentions of various ideas. Uh there's the verse I just read, there was a lamp. The first mention of the lamb, we will discuss it in the book of Genesis 22, Genesis chapter 4 and elsewhere. First mention uh the idea of first mention helps us appreciate number one that God himself is without changing. So whatever God spoke in the book of Genesis, the idea that God presented of love, of sacrifice, of of of the state of man in life and death and of so many other things of of redemption, of how God will save his people. Those ideas he presented in Genesis, he did he did not radically change them all of a sudden. Once we move to the New Testament for instance uh uh there are various verses in the Bible that firmly establish that God 100% is unchanging that God is not arbitrary that God doesn't just change his mind arbitrarily on one day thinking one thing on another day another you know sometimes you have the idea that you know there's the God of the Old Testament and the God of the of the new that is not biblical the book of Isaiah 40:7 to8 tells us the grass witherth and the flower fadeth away because the spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it. Surely the people is grass. The grass witherth and the flower fadeth away, but the the word of the Lord shall stand forever. So God's word number one stands forever. The ideas that God presents because God's a part of God's word is specifically what he spoke in Genesis. The ideas that he he presented at the very foundation, they do not change. They they are developed, they increase, they are magnified. you know that um as I said how one understands anything you know calculus 101 calculus 102 mathematics 101 mathematics 102 that's the same with heavenly principles that God establishes of salvation of sacrifice and of love or things of that nature uh um another verse that actually establishes that God himself does not change Malachi 3:6 it says for I am the Lord I change not therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed and again Hebrews chapter 13:8 Paul tells us that Jesus is the same yesterday, today and forever. So a a God does not change. Jesus does not change. The word of God and the principles found in it would not change. Therefore, it is very safe for for us to actually enter into a study of Genesis to try and extract from it what God was saying and to use it to understand the rest of the Bible. And in fact, this study will be very very fruitful as we go on with a study especially of sacrifice, salvation, and the and the rest of the other themes, especially as we're seeking to understand um some of the symbols found in the book of Revelation, for instance. Thank you. That's very comforting to just um think of the God that we serve that he he abounds and he he he is true to his word. You know, it will be very terrifying when you're serving a king or when you're serving anybody, even if you even if it's your boss. Think about it. If today when you walk to him he's this is the principle he uses today then tomorrow the principle changes then another day the principle changes I think they there is um a world government today that people are really scared of and people are saying I think the biggest problem that I have is not that these things are happening is that they are so unpredictable but it is very comforting to know that the government that the true government that truly matters does not change it holds it holds true to what it has said Christ himself writes and says that everything away will pass but the words that are written in this book they shall not pass away. So my brother Raphael what are some of the dangers of us u um probably weakening um some of these uh truths that we have heard over time even if they have probably been presented in a very logical fashion. How can we have the Bible as an anchor especially borrowing from this principle? Indeed um Christ himself says uh it is easier for the world to pass away than for even one jotal title of the law to be changed. He speaks thus in I think it's Matthew 5:18. Uh and so uh it speaks to us as a verse that came to mind as we were looking at u the principle of first mention is in proverbs 4:18. It says that the path of the just is like the sun, like the shining sun that shines ever brighter unto the perfect day. That indeed Genesis is like the first rays of light to the world, the first book of the Bible. And in the book of Genesis, this first ray is as important as the last rays of the sun which are in Revelation. And so they're equally effective. And so the path of the justice is is the same. It simply tells us that even in truth there is some progression that even revelation itself progresses slowly by slowly and so it is important to go back to the beginning that God first lays a lays a foundation and this foundation is sure and if it is the same God then he himself has said he never changes and therefore truth which is God's word truth is who god is you know and and and uh in John 17:1 17 say sanctify them by the truth your word is The word is truth. In John 1:1, it says in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God. So when God God is saying he doesn't change, he means even his word doesn't change. It means even his prophecies will not change. And therefore in a world where men men's interpretations uh and and and and their perceptions and their and and the attitudes towards the Bible are changing, we as Christians have an anchor that can keep the soul steadfast and sure. And that is found in the word of God and allowing the word of God to interrupt to interpret itself uh going by this principle of first mention. Amen. Amen. Um reminds me of a verse uh that has just come to mind in the book of Psalms 138:E2. The Bible writes and says, "I will worship toward thy holy temple and praise thy name for thy loving kindness and for thy truth. For thou has magnified thy word above all thy name that God what he spoke even in Genesis is so magnified even above his very own name that God will obey even his word. It was established. It is our anchor. It can be our anchor today. Some people may come up with funny doctrines. Go back to the word. That can be your anchor today. And I want us to start walking through some of the most fundamental doctrines that we have been revealed especially in the book of Revelation. But we want to see how they were first established in the book of Genesis. And the first one I want us to look at is God's love for us. How was God's love first explained to us in the book of Genesis? And how can we relate to God's love today in a world today where people say, "I don't think anyone loves me. I don't think God loves me. I don't understand what you mean that there's a God unknown to me who loves me." How was this principle first portrayed? How is God's love first portrayed? Brother Rafael, if you can just open for us on that. All right. So, going by even even in the lesson itself, we are building from the principle of first mention. And so going by this same principle, we are looking at understanding God's love. And we are called to consider in the book of Genesis chapter 22 where the Bible first uses the word love. This is one of my favorite chapters indeed. So he says uh and it's in at the context in Genesis 22 verse 1-13. It's in the context of the story of Abraham being asked to sacrifice his son Isaac. The Bible begins and says uh that God was testing Abraham and he called Abraham uh God called Abraham and Abraham replied and said yes Lord. And then he says from my version of the Bible it says in verse two take your take with you your only son. Yes, Isaac, whom you love so much, and go to the land of Moriah and sacrifice him there as a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I'll point out to you. You see, God is acknowledging that Abraham loves his son. Amen. He's acknowledging that there there's a bond and and in fact he also sort of acknowledges Abraham's rather Isaac's worthiness as an air even if there was Ishmael in the eyes of God the child of the promise is the child called Isaac and so he says this child whom you love sacrifice him and there we see the first mention of a son yielding and obeying to the father if you continue with the up to up to verse 13, it says uh it says uh eventually even Isaac himself obeyed. We see a a father in obedience to God in obedience to God offering his son because he loved God. He offered his his son. And we see a son who loved his father and in order to please his father's willing to be sacrificed. In essence, it's the gospel story mentioned to us first in the book of Genesis. The gospel story illustrated to us. We see for example uh this word love is later on used by John in John 3:16. He says, "For God so loved the world." We see Abraham so loved God. But in this case, it is God loving the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him should not what perish. And Christ himself says he he also laid down his life by in obedience like Isaac. He he comes to the cross. You see for example in the garden as he prays take this cup away from me. But then later on he says but not my will but thine. Christ himself also submitting to the will of the father. And the the differences in these two stories is that where Isaac was saved by God providing a ram, Christ went the whole way. Christ went the whole way. And so we see we sort of try are called to sort of understand the love of God through the love of a father through his son. Imagine a child of promise. A child that you've waited for a child that you got when you are around a 100 years old 99 your wife is your wife is is equally old. The only child of your wife child of promise then suddenly God says go up this mountain and sacrifice this son. But in obedience, in love, Abraham does it. Abraham is willing to sacrifice Isaac. It speaks to us about the love of God. It speaks to us about about sin and and and and and and how it had it had consumed humanity to the extent that Christ that God in seeing that there is no way that man can save himself, God gave his only begotten son and Christ himself gives his life. Sister White writes from the book great controversy page 678 speaking about the love of God which is one of the greatest concepts uh as we begin also in the principle of first mention the first book in the conflict of the ages series is patriarchs and prophets and it begins and says what God is love the last book is what great controversy and it ends and says what God is love God is love and she's and um the author quotes the last paragraph of the book great controversy and it says The entire universe is clean. One pulse of harmony and gladness beats through the vast creation. From him who created all flow life and light and gladness throughout the realms of elimitable space. From the minutest atom to the greatest world, all things animate and inanimate in their unshadowed beauty and perfect joy declare that God is love. And so you see the theme of love and understanding God's love. Sometimes the as you shall see our understanding of love tells to be self-centered but the understanding of God is other of the love of God is other centered it puts the needs of man first it puts the needs of the one who the ones who have fallen the ones who are hurt the ones others it's other worldly love you know uh and so in helping us to understand God's love the story of Abraham and Isaac and many other stories in the Bible are given to us to enable us to understand truly this love of God. This love of God indeed the Bible uh the lesson author says it foreshadowed God's love for the human race. He loved us to the point where he gave his only begotten son. And so in understanding God's love, we have the example of a father Abraham giving his only begotten son. There are very many things that human beings do today to illustrate love. Um I think Valentine's is not too long ago when people celebrated love and people go out of their way to do crazy things depending on their financial mass. That's true. Some buying very expensive cars, wrapping them nicely. Yes. And you can imagine God who has endless resources could have used many diverse ways to illustrate his love toward us. But then he used a very interesting method to show us that my love can only be demonstrated by showing you what I am willing to give up, what I am willing to sacrifice. And he it's interesting that he the from the book of Genesis, we have an idea that truly God loves man. He can see God trying to pursue man. But in Genesis 22, he sets such an amazing scene where he shows that his love can only be demonstrated the way a father will be willing to give up his son. And by the way, I think for for Abraham, I think that was a small thing compared to what God gave up what God gave up for us. I think the question I would ask, what are some of the ways we can show that self-sacrificing love that God has demonstrated for us to other people? I would say number one uh the most important thing we can do is reveal uh uh uh the gospel to others. Paul tells Timothy, you are an epistle that I have written. So h in our character we can reveal um uh uh the love and the glory of God. I think it's in Matthew chapter 5 that Christ says what that um let this light so shine that others may see your good works and glorify your father in heaven. If we reveal Jesus Christ first of all in our works and secondly in the gospel we can be it's it's almost like you're pulling somebody out of fire. Uh the Bible explicitly tells us that the wages of sin is death. That means that your own dear friends whom you love so much if they're walking in a path out of harmony with the Lord they will surely die. But if you love your your brother and sister so much the best thing you can do is you try and pull them out of this fire. And how can you do that? by showing them the e the love of Christ in words, in actions, caring for them to lead them to the cross and to Jesus Christ. Obviously, also sacrificing our own goods and our resources and our energy to help other people is another very important means, but I would say the most important is trying to show them Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much. And actually just very good transition to uh what is being spoken of um on Tuesday. Um Isaac's question after he has been brought to um Mount Moria by Abraham his father he they did not come with a lamb. They came there to make a sacrifice but there was no lamb. And when um everything had been set up um in Genesis chapter 22:7 um Isaac turns to his father and he's wondering father we have been doing a lot of sacrifices for a long time and we always have a lamb we have traveled a long journey but we have not come with a lamb and he asked this question and Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said my father and he said here am I my son and he said behold the fire and the wood but where is the lamb lamb for a burnt offering. The lamb as a sacrifice even before Genesis chapter 22, we interact with it in Genesis chapter 4 when um when Adam comes I Abel comes presenting a lamb as the first things of his flock as a sacrifice to to God for the penitence of his sins. We also actually interact with it um in Genesis 3 when we see Adam and Eve they are clothed with skins. A lamb had to die for them to be clothed. A lamb had to die to signify the lamb of God that will later come. That the very foundation of our salvation of a lamb being a substitute for what we would have suffered. But a lamb is presented first in Genesis 3, then in Genesis chapter 4, illustrating one important truth that we cannot save ourselves. We cannot die for ourselves. Yes, please God. Yeah. Yeah. I was going to say just to confirm that surely that lamb was slain and the skins like God didn't just like make skins, you know, like out of thin air. We know in the book of revelation says and all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him whose names are not written in the book of life of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. So that was Christ being typified in that first sacrifice in Eden of that lamb that was slain and the skins formed. And so there might be many ideas that have come up later on. You know some people today believe that for the the path for you to be saved you have to do a lot of many good works and then depending on the number of good works you do then you will end up in heaven. Some I think our Muslim brothers believe that some Christians, our Catholic friends believe that you have to give penances and we um I was actually surprised a research you were doing recently and we find up to this day Catholics are still doing penances even though we know that the just shall live by faith. Today people are still um with actually today now it is the period of Lent that is going on and they are going around their churches crying screaming and we're going to see even when Easter is approaching we will see people being sacrificed people being slain yet it is only Christ himself who can save us from our sins. Christ and Christ alone. And so the question that many people ask the question that maybe you may be asking where is that lamp? The same way Isaac asked that question. The same way actually in the book of Revelation chapter 4 again we see a the throne room of heaven. Heaven is in a crisis and the question everyone is asking who is worthy to stand on behalf of sinful men. You may be asking who is that lamb who will die for me? Who is that who will come for my sac for to be sacrificed for my sin? The Bible responds and it is in our key text in the book of John 1:29. And John already looking at the sacrifices that had been given for a long time in the Old Testament. Now he sees that type has met antiype. That lamb that was shown in the Old Testament is now being typified in Christ Jesus. And he sees Christ working to him while he's baptizing many sinners. sinners representing their death into sin and to wake up in the resurrection of the newness of life. He points us and says, "Behold the lamb of God. The lamb you have been seeking for. Behold the lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world." It is comforting to know that there is a substitute for our sin today. A foundational truth established in the book of Sal in the book of Genesis. So what hope do we have? What hope do we have today? Or how can we be how can we be confident to stand in the judgment? In the book of Titus, I'd like us to consider the book of Titus uh chapter 3 and verse 5. And it says the following. Not by works of righteousness which we have done but according to his mercy. Amen. He saved us by the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Ghost. That indeed questions Isaac's question still stands to this very day. In essence, he was asking how shall we be saved? How shall we sacrifice to God? You know, how shall we please God? Where is the lamb? Where is that perfect sacrifice that God will accept? You know, we live in an era and an age where sometimes I see ministers saying telling their congregants that have prayed for you, you know, I've seen ministers making judgment and saying you you can't go to heaven because of X, Y, and Zed. And I've seen people broken because they received words from ministers or because they couldn't do certain things. For example, um the holy month of Ramadan just ended and there were some people who are unwell, but they were really trying to fast. I could see they really trying to fast because they believe with all their heart that this is one of the five pillars of salvation of of of of being a good Muslim and which I believe translates to being saved, you know, and and that is to observe Ramadan every time it comes around. And I could see an old lady struggling, struggling, struggling, diabetic, but she's really struggling. She she she has she's she's unwell, but she really wants to fast. She really wants to fast. And and and I and I wondered and I looked at them and I said, "What marvelous faith?" But then such faith can be difficult for others, you know, and and such faith also to a certain extent sometimes can blind us and and and and and comfort us and and we feel that we have merited salvation. You see, Abraham is asked to sacrifice his only son. You know, his his his own life, the only thing he had ever wanted was a child, an heir. Then God answers this prayer. And now God wants his son. But even that is not enough. Eventually God puts in a lamb. God puts in a lamb. And this lamb typifies Christ. This lamb typifies the innocent dying for the guilty. You know, this lamb doesn't understand what's going on. It's simply offered at the altar. And there we see Christ. And so this truth is so foundational and it it helps to make the life of the Christian easy and sets many people free. You don't need to burden yourself. You don't need to to to to to fast for so long. You don't you don't need to strike yourself the way Luther was striking himself and going up uh on his knees on those stairs until he had in his mind that the just shall live by faith. Ephesians 2, it says, "I've been saved by grace through faith." And so, and so Christ truly is the answer. Christ is the only solution. The all of us who will go to heaven, from the thief on the cross to the one who has been faithful for 30 years, all will enter because of faith in Christ our Lord and our savior. He is the only perfect substitute. So where is that lamb? The Lord will provide for himself a lamb. That lamb is Christ Jesus. You do not need to die in your sins. I point you to the lamb that was slain. I want us to go to um another foundational doctrine. You know, coming from God's love, coming now to how salvation and how we can be saved and the sacrifice of God. It seems very strange for us to imagine that this God would let people die. If he loves us, if he's died for us, if he's died so that we cannot die, how can God let us die? How is this established in Genesis and how can we relate to it today? Moving on to the Wednesday part, how can we deal with death? Thank you so much. So uh uh we've established so many very important uh fundamental uh biblical doctrines. There's another very important one, the state of man in death. And uh if you look at for instance um many of you your science textbooks and and you look at um the idea that is presented of how people came to be it was the result of millions and millions of years of death and small improvement. uh uh so for instance you know uh the thing that was let's say the protohuman or the proto monkey the premonkey or the prehuman died and then advanced and more advanced versions of them arose up until homo sapiens ourselves and and and by then you see that death is almost an engine of improvement it is an engine it's it's like the reason why things are so nice right now why everything is so beautiful in the natural world is because of death and death was almost like like both natural and an essential part of of of existence. But from the scriptures that is not the case. From the scriptures death is actually a stranger. In the book of Genesis chapter 2 verse1 15-1 17 we find and the Lord God took man and put him in the into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded man saying of every tree of the garden thou mayest h eat eat freely but of the tree of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it. For in the day that it is thereof, thou shalt surely die. surely die. And h if you actually go for yourself to look at the Hebrew, it's saying almost that in dying you shall die. It's like saying you shall totally, completely, and surely die. It is an introduction of death. It is not a new type of death, an advanced version of death. It is simply death that is being introduced and brought into the human experience. This tells us that death is a stranger. So when we say, "Oh, death is just a part of life." Yes, it is not a part of life. It is it is a part that it happens right now, but it is a stranger. It is alien that it was not there before. It was not part of God's plan. And then another thing that we find is um in the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 15 to 19, we find that the solution to that the gospel a key part of the gospel is the end of death. Key part that means that death had a beginning and death will have an end. That is there will come a point in time when further in the future there shall be no such thing as death. We are told in 1 Corinthians 15:15-19, "Yay, we are found false witnesses of God because we have testified of of God that he raised up Christ whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not." That an essential part of the gospel and of the message of Christ is that Christ conquered death, that he defeated death. Verse 16, for if the dead rise not, then is Christ not raised. And if Christ be not raised, then what? Your faith is what? Your faith is in vain, and you are yet in your sins. Then they also which have fallen asleep in Christ are perished. And if in this life we only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. So that means that an essential part of the gospel is that death is being brought to an end. Death came and death is going away. Death is it is real. It is not that like you won't lie to yourself and say that you know I am I have now become immortal. We have become immortal uh in in a sense by faith as we trust in God expecting the the resurrection to come. But right now death is a real thing but it is an it is a stranger. It is an enemy and it shall be 100% defeated. Why? By who? By Jesus Christ who in Revelation 1:18 says I am he that lives and was dead and behold I am alive forever more. Amen. And have the keys of hell and of death. So I know others may say that death is this natural thing. It's a normal thing. That is not uh uh the biblical way, the Christian way. And if we're looking at h from the foundations of Genesis for death, we find that death is an alien. And that if you look at the h in the book of revelation, we find that death will be defeated. It is the last enemy to be a to be destroyed. the last enemy to be destroyed without the problem of death being solved. What happens to our faith? I know he alluded to it, but maybe you can break it down for a few seconds. Indeed. I think um one aspect uh I feel like we also need to to understand is even the way death itself is mentioned, you know, uh it's not mentioned as a shifting from one arena to another. Yes. You know when God says in the day that you shall eat of this fruit you will die. He did not mean that they will move from Eden to heaven. You know maybe become cats. Oh yeah or or reincarnate you know and and and and come in a different it he simply meant they will cease to exist for a period of time you know. Uh but in that I believe in that in that classical nature there it meant cease to exist ultimately forever you know. And so and so uh when we speak about death sometimes we tend to comfort ourselves that our brethren have gone to a better place you know or if there was a if there they really they were really wicked you know they've gone somewhere where God is melting out punishment you know they were untouchable here on earth they could bribe judges they could do all these things but I'm sure when they die they he they'll be taken to hell and they'll be get they'll get whipped you know etc etc but the Bible speaks to us and tells us that indeed Indeed uh death uh is not a transition but rather is is is a state of unconsciousness and and and and it's a sensation stop. It's a sensation of life and in fact the Bible equates death to sleep you know and so uh many many texts come to mind but this one thing uh it tells us that even the very first time that death is mentioned it is mentioned as a consequence of sin. Yes. And therefore the only solution to death would be to deal must first of all deal with sin. And so Christ once again is the answer. You see Christ's dying on the cross and ultimately resurrecting three days later shows to showed to us he indeed who is the firstborn from the dead. You know he showed to us that indeed death itself will die. showed to us that indeed death has has been dealt with and death itself has been defeated and it speaks of a time to come. It speaks of the promise of resurrection. It speaks of of of hope and of joy. Isaiah writes in in the book of Isaiah uh 26 verse 19 and it says from my my translation it says yet we have this assurance those who belong to God shall live again. Their bodies shall rise again. Those who dwell in the dust shall awake and sing for joy for God's light of life will fall like dew upon them. Isaiah speaks about a resurrection. Isaiah speaks about um and in essence he's telling us that the dead are on the ground. you know, they're not in heaven. And then and then then and there's that that promise of resurrection. And uh and as you say, there are many other many other texts. First Thessalonians 4:16-17, Paul himself speaking to the Thessalonians is telling them when you cry for you are dead. It means crying. Crying is natural because death is an invader. Something there's a violation that has happened. A loved one has been taken away from you crually. You know, there's some pain there. So cry. It's okay to cry. But he says, "Do not cry as those who do not have hope." Because those who die in the faith, those who die with with a relationship with Christ, he says, in fact, they given priority. It says, "The dead in Christ shall rise." Amen. Amen. And you know, he read to us this passage that says, "If thou shalt eat of this fruit, then thou shalt surely die in the book of Genesis." Uh, I want us to go to why it actually came into this world. What really happened? Um viewer, I just want to remind you of some of the principles that we have reviewed so far in the book. We are helping you to study the book of Revelation to help you understand how to unravel it. It looks like a book that's difficult to understand, but we we've laid down a foundation of certain principles. When you open the book of Revelation, you will find a few things mentioned there. first he has just mentioned it is that Christ is the one who has the key to death and hell when you just see that and to the grave yes so we want to we've gone back to the book of Genesis because we know John is not writing in isolation he's referencing terms already known which were established in gen in Genesis the second thing that we have seen mentioned in the book of revelation is about the love letters Christ writing to his church you know at first tells them you have forgotten your first love and we've gone back to see the foundation of that love as laid down in the book of Genesis help key tips to help you understand the things that John is mentioning in the book of revelation where do they stem from then in the book of revelation chapter 4 John speaks about this lamb that was seen and we go we've gone back to show you what that lamb represented it represents our salvation so when you open the book of revelation chapter 4 you need to understand where this concept was set up in uh where they were first set up. Um and then in the book of Revelation chapter 13, a very interesting symbol is used here as well. And I want us to go to see first where that symbol came in and actually how death came into this world. It speaks of a serpent. Um actually it's it's first introduced in Revelation 12 of this serpent that um pursues this woman. So please break it down for us. um from the serpent we see in the garden of Eden to how death was introduced into this world. Indeed uh it speaks to us about the serpent and it's found in the book of revelation uh 12 and verse 1-9 and revelation 12:1-9 speaks about war in heaven and um it says there was war in heaven and Michael and his angels fought against uh the dragon and his angels and then in verse 9 the bible takes time to explain to us who exactly is this dragon in verse The following is is is recorded and it says this great dragon, the ancient serpent called the devil or Satan, the one deceiving the whole world, was thrown down onto the earth with all his army. He tells us about war in heaven and one of the parties that was defeated was thrown where? On earth. And he's referred to as an ancient serpent when in the book of Revelation. And so we realize this serpent was thrown where to the earth. And though when we go to Genesis 3 verse 1:5, lo and behold, we see a woman and a serpent. An encounter between uh uh Eve and and and and a serpent. And we see in that encounter, the devil comes and and and and once again, what does he do? He deceives Eve. Bible records in verse in chapter in chapter 3:1 of Genesis the serpent was the craftiest of all the creatures the Lord God had made and the serpent came to the woman and said really you know he asked none of the fruit in the garden God says you mustn't eat any of it this is my translation and it continues very conversational translation very conversational translation indeed yes but it's called the Bible in basic English okay uh in in simple in simple English generally and so it continues and eventually Actually uh the serpent lies to the woman. And he says in verse four, he says that's a lie. The serpent said you'll not die. God knows very well that the instant you eat of this you will become like him for your eyes will be open and you will be able to distinguish between what? Good and evil. You will have a knowledge of good and evil. And so we see some parallels in Revelation. We were told this the dragon is is a serpent who is also the devil. He fought in heaven and as a result of losing he was sent where to the earth and he's known as an ancient serpent. In essence it's almost like the revelator is telling us let's go look for a serpent somewhere in the past. And when you go to to the book of Genesis, indeed you don't need to move very far. That's the third chapter, it tells us about old serpent. That's old serpent. That ancient serpent. And so we see Satan using the medium of a snake. Using the medium of a snake and he's able to do what? To lie to Eve. Similarly also we are told as you continue with the with scripture, it says that the devil lies to the whole world. And most of the time as you as you move on now to chapter 13, you will realize that once again the devil uses other beasts. He uses other mediums. He doesn't come directly. He's he's he's in the veil. He's behind there. He's hidden somewhere. That's very interesting. The same way he presented himself at the beginning at the beginning is the same way he's presenting himself in this last days. In fact, in Revelation chapter 13, we see he's using certain beast powers, certain kingdoms, as we saw, as we established that beasts are kingdoms. He's using political uh entities, movements and and and and and u and systems to push his agenda. And more often than not, sometimes some of these um entities are not only political but also religious. You know there's that aspect of saying offering the opening of eyes. We live in an age in which everybody is calling is looking for enlightenment. Everybody is like the the age of enlightenment, the age of reason, the age of uh of all of new agism. You know a lot of uh a lot of um what is perceived as new truth which is actually an old lie uh is is emerging today. and and and and we see in essence from the from Genesis up to Revelation the character of God and the character of the devil are more or less consistent. the the teams as they play out, the way the way that it's it's it's like if you know the way a coach coaches his team, you know, this is the way he he he he he likes his formation and and and with this understanding then we can be able to understand and to trace the great controversy from Genesis all the way to Revelation. Amen. Um very interesting in the book of John chapter 8 verse44 again God uh Christ referencing all the way from the beginning it says ye are of your father the devil and the last of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning from the beginning and abode not in the truth. You know Revelations said he was that deceiver. He was a deceiver from the beginning. He deceived Eve. He deceived us. And I liked the way you just brought it out to say oh uh he presents himself in the same way as a medium does not necessarily come directly. I just want to um ask today when we are um looking at some of the um some of the truths being presented or doctrines being presented today. How has that serpent revealed himself as a deceiver today? What are some of the lies that we have accepted today but they have actually been given to us by the serpent and as Eve did accepted the lies of the serpent we are also partaking of them today. Thank you. I think it's what um uh my brother he was referencing the idea the the it's packed as a new age idea. It is the simple idea that we are a law unto ourselves. That we represent a truth unto ourselves. That we of our own accord without divine revelation without the word of God can come to truths. Which in part is true. In part in the book of revelation we are told that in a sense a a a every single person has in a sense um some reference of the law, some reference here and there of truth. But it is it is like a mirror that is sorry. It is like a ruler that is broken. a ruler that is it is correct in parts but incorrect in other parts and therefore it is not useful for for for a consistent application. And so in truth if we start following our own hearts you know the idea do what the w do what you want to do follow your heart that is one of the most dangerous ideas that can uh drive um somebody's life but unfortunately that is a common me message a common idea that is present throughout almost all forms of media to this very day. Another similar idea idea that there are many other parts. You know Jesus Jesus Christ said explicitly I am the way the truth and the life. No man comes to the father except by me. And then all of a sudden a new message is given today that there are many paths there are many ways there are many truths. That is extremely dangerous. It is like um uh if you look at water and if you look at other fluids that look like water you know something like glycerine which has a like it appears like water h I'm sure even like um if I remember my chemistry correctly even hydrochloric acid is clear you know it perfectly looks like in a sense but I am very certain if you drink that thing like water it will have highly delarious and dangerous effects so it is very very dangerous for us to think that we can establish truth for ourselves and that is the singular and the and the greatest lie which the devil again you know Genesis foundations that he began in the book of Genesis and we can see that lie being consistently given when when when the devil made Jesus Christ in the book of Matthew 4:1 to uh to 10 the devil used almost the same means there was a word that was given in Genesis 2 to Adam and Eve what was the word don't eat of these fruits and then the devil challenged them and said you know what if God is is is is lying and hiding something. It's the same thing in the book of Matthew 3:17. I believe God says what? This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. And then what does the devil do in Matthew chapter 4? If you are the son of God, if you are God's son, you see he's already doubting that which has explicitly been the word of God. Planting doubt that is a consistent refrain, a consistent message of Satan. We must first of all note it and recognize it quickly and then do what Jesus Christ did and stick plainly upon the word of God and and resist the enemy. And the enemy we are told will flee. We are told three times he tried and then immediately he he he like he fled and and Christ was ministered to by angels. Matthew 4:10. You and I, if we stand firm in the truth, stand firm in the word of God in especially the foundations we established in the book of Genesis throughout in fact the entire scriptures, then we can be sound and sure against the attacks of the enemy. Amen. Amen. We are running out of time. I really did want us to just dive into a few erroneous doctrines that today people have misinterpreted the scripture. Maybe they have called the the serpent as something else. remember I think we were saying the two uh uh horns in the book of Daniel uh people saying that those are the two twin towers you know maybe because people didn't go back to the principles of first mention I don't know how you have read the book of revelation before in the past and what you have misunderstood from it what you have heard what are the ideas of the serpent clearly you can see the serpent was first established in the book of Genesis you do not need to look for new and fancy ways of interpreting scripture you just need to go back to when they were first established, when the doctrine was first established in scripture for you to better understand the Bible. I want to go back to the my panelist for us to for them to give us even um a few more principles of how you can uh that you can apply when you're studying the book of Revelation and especially the Bible in your Bible studies in your devotion tomorrow. What are some of those principles? And as they give us one of a few of those principles, I want us to also uh for them to give us their key takeaways for you to have a very a key takeaway as we close this lesson discussion today. We'll start with you my brother Raphael. All right. So um in one of my key takeaways is from the Wednesday bit where when it speaks about how the problem of death being solved and in essence the problem of death being solved was the resurrection. I find there's a question is asking what is the significance of the resurrection. I think one the resurrection confirms that Christ is indeed the son of God. You know in Romans chapter 1 and verse4 we told that he was declared to be the son of God with power. How? By the resurrection from the dead. It also speaks to us and tells us that uh it validates our faith. You know uh later elsewhere in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 14 Paul is is is is sort of uh um I would say pontificating and arguing. is making an argument and it said and if Christ is not risen then our preaching what is in vain and our faith is also in vainless. Yes. Therefore without the resurrection Christianity is just another moral philosophy and just another among many. Yes. But we realize with the resurrection Christianity becomes a balanced diet. It's the whole thing you know from here to eternity. Amen. And so I think that that's an important that's an important aspect uh what the resurrection answers and there are many other things that is it shows the power of God over sin. It shows the power of God over creation. It simply shows the might and the power of God. And so um one of the principles that we use Bible prophecy that's equally important uh as as as part now to answer the the former part of your question is that the Bible is sort of like a jigsaw puzzle. And so don't read uh a particular text in isolation. It's important to read in context. But also sometimes as as you can see in revelation you hear of a dragon and a serpent. Then if you go back to Genesis you realize there's actually a serpent there who comes and who lies and you can be able to see there sort of some archetypes there there sort of some some themes uh that that that are that that are consistent and that are able to to teach us. And so there's a principle of here a little, there a little, comparing scripture to scripture and building up uh uh the whole the whole picture. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Uh for me very quickly uh a principle which I feel is very very important. Second Peter 1 20 and 21 knowing this first that no prophecy of the scriptures is of any private interpretation. Why? For prophecy came not in old time by the will of men but holy men of God who spake as they were moved by who? The Holy Ghost. the Holy Ghost. That means that given that all of the authors of the scriptures were in effect prophets because they received a message from God that are communicating that means the whole Bible was inspired by the Holy Spirit. How do you understand the text? By asking the author. Pray and ask for more of the Holy Spirit and God will give you this insight and understanding. Uh quickly a a part of the this lesson that resonated is the idea of the great controversy theme that's found in Genesis chapter 3. The idea that there is a battle uh uh between uh uh Christ and the devil uh uh not that it is an equal battle. I think this is people misunderstood. It's not that we are equal parties. Christ is infinite in every sense. The devil is a finite being. It just so happens the devil e deceives and lies and Christ speaks only the truth. And there is a a a a great conflict from the very beginning that is found in Genesis 3 that continues on. And if you follow that battle, so many things in the scriptures make so much sense and culminates in the book of revelation. Amen. Well, then thank you so much for joining us today. What I will say is that you know for the disciples and the apostles, they only had the Old Testament. They did not have the New Testament. But we see Paul spending time with Jesus in the Arabian desert. that by the time he came out of the Arabian desert, he saw nothing but Jesus in all the text of the Old Testament. Now that can be you as well, my viewer, if you spend time with Jesus and if you spend time in the word, you can see Jesus spotted in every passage of scripture, especially in the book of Revelation. He writes it himself. I invite you to study with us the book of Revelation and to join us this quarter. Thank you so much for joining us. My brother Jafet, would you kindly pray with us as we close? Thank you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity given us to have done this study. We ask for more of your spirit. Um uh that you help us to apply the truths that we learned about the Genesis foundations that the foundations we have learned of, uh the message of salvation and of your love that you have for us and of the conflict that is before us. that all these things may may be impressed upon our hearts that we may live in a way that glorifies your name. In Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[8.1s] Praise God and happy Sabbath. Good
[11.1s] morning, good evening, good afternoon.
[13.6s] Welcome from wherever you're watching us
[15.4s] from. This is New Life 7th Day Adventist
[18.2s] Church uh Sabbath morning for our lesson
[21.4s] study discussion. This week we are going
[24.5s] to be studying the Genesis Foundation.
[27.6s] This is the second week of the second
[29.4s] quarter of this year. It's been an
[31.0s] exciting year so far studying the word
[33.1s] of God and I want to invite you to study
[35.1s] with us. With me I am joined by my
[37.7s] friends who will be studying together
[39.2s] with us. I will allow them to mention
[41.6s] their names and then we will begin.
[43.5s] We'll start from this side. Jafet Rono.
[47.0s] Thank you. My name is Enongo Rafael
[49.0s] Yamiso. It's a pleasure to be here.
[51.0s] Wonderful. And my name is Jess Rono.
[54.3s] Rafael. Would you kindly pray with us as
[56.5s] we start? All right, let's believe and
[58.7s] pray. Our kind and loving father and
[60.9s] master, we thank you and praise your
[62.9s] name for this wonderful opportunity to
[64.6s] study your Bible and to give us the
[67.2s] principles rather the easy way um the
[72.0s] understanding of Bible prophecy. And now
[74.2s] as we consider the Genesis foundation, I
[76.3s] pray may you grant us your spirit who
[79.0s] inspired the writing of your word that
[81.0s] you may simplify these things to all who
[83.4s] shall hear this message is our prayer in
[85.4s] Jesus name. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[89.4s] You know recently there have been many
[91.6s] doctrines that have popped up and often
[94.0s] times if you have observed what I have
[96.6s] observed young people tend to get bored
[99.8s] with hearing things that have been
[101.7s] repeated over and over again and they
[104.1s] want to look for some novelty some new
[106.2s] truth that is found in the word of God
[108.6s] and they come up with crafts and ideas
[111.2s] and doctrines that have not been
[112.9s] established in the word of God. And what
[115.4s] people most fail to do is go back to
[118.1s] when truths were first established. I am
[120.8s] excited to be diving into this because
[122.6s] Genesis is one of my favorite books.
[124.7s] Genesis, the Genesis foundation that all
[128.4s] the truths that are especially important
[131.3s] for the Christian today. They have
[133.3s] already been established in the word of
[135.5s] God and especially in the book of
[137.9s] beginnings and that is Genesis. We will
[140.6s] start by reading our key text today
[142.6s] which is one of the truths that we will
[144.6s] see how it was first established in the
[146.7s] book of Genesis. Um brother uh Jaffet
[150.0s] please uh read for us the key text u for
[152.6s] this week. Thank you. Uh the key text of
[155.1s] the week is John 1 29. Uh and I'm
[158.4s] reading from the King James version. It
[160.2s] says next day John seeth Jesus coming
[162.9s] unto him and saith behold the lamb of
[165.8s] God which taketh away the sin of the
[168.2s] world. You know when you first read that
[170.2s] text in the book of John you would think
[172.6s] why is John talking about a lamb? We
[175.1s] have not had any interaction of a lamb
[177.4s] in the book of John or even in the book
[179.4s] of Matthew at least in the beginnings
[181.8s] beginning chapters of Matthew. Then John
[183.8s] just opens up and in the first chapter
[185.8s] he's talking about the lamb. And we want
[188.2s] to help you to know how to study Bible
[191.4s] prophecy. And we want to go to very key
[194.1s] concepts that are mentioned in the book
[195.9s] of Revelation. But before we visit them
[198.3s] in the book of Revelation, which we are
[200.0s] going to see later on in this lesson as
[202.2s] we continue studying out throughout the
[204.2s] quarter, we want to go back to Genesis
[206.8s] and see when some of those principles
[209.5s] were established in Genesis. what did
[212.2s] they mean? And so before we go to um
[215.0s] even further, I want us to talk about
[216.9s] the the the first principle that we are
[219.8s] talking about today, the principle of
[222.1s] first mentioned when things were first
[224.1s] mentioned. So even before we open to
[225.9s] revelation, can we go back to Genesis
[228.2s] and establish some of those truths? Um
[231.8s] my brother would you kindly just walk us
[233.8s] through what this principle of first
[235.7s] mention is all about as spoken of in in
[238.4s] the Monday part and maybe just help us
[241.1s] break it down for us to understand how
[243.3s] God views truth especially today when
[245.6s] people say oh I view it this way and I
[247.5s] view it that way but how does God view
[249.8s] it? Thank you so much. So uh h as we
[252.7s] think about the principle of first
[254.5s] mention what does that mean exactly? uh
[257.3s] uh if you think about anything that you
[259.4s] have ever learned you know um the first
[261.4s] time I decided to learn how to cook um I
[263.7s] did not try and cook the most uh
[265.4s] exquisite or complicated I began with I
[268.0s] would call it cooking 101 the basics the
[270.9s] most fundamental you know the first meal
[273.9s] it was rice and then the second meal was
[276.5s] a particular meal that we love in Kenya
[278.2s] called chapati mine came out like a
[280.2s] cookie but I enjoyed it very much you
[282.3s] see that's how I think we would learn to
[284.6s] uh understand things in the Bible In the
[286.7s] book of Genesis, you find first mentions
[289.0s] of various ideas. Uh there's the verse I
[292.1s] just read, there was a lamp. The first
[294.0s] mention of the lamb, we will discuss it
[295.8s] in the book of Genesis 22, Genesis
[298.2s] chapter 4 and elsewhere. First mention
[300.8s] uh the idea of first mention helps us
[302.8s] appreciate number one that God himself
[305.5s] is without changing. So whatever God
[307.4s] spoke in the book of Genesis, the idea
[309.1s] that God presented of love, of
[311.8s] sacrifice, of of of the state of man in
[314.6s] life and death and of so many other
[316.4s] things of of redemption, of how God will
[318.6s] save his people. Those ideas he
[320.3s] presented in Genesis, he did he did not
[322.3s] radically change them all of a sudden.
[324.5s] Once we move to the New Testament for
[326.6s] instance uh uh there are various verses
[329.4s] in the Bible that firmly establish that
[331.9s] God 100% is unchanging that God is not
[336.0s] arbitrary that God doesn't just change
[337.7s] his mind arbitrarily on one day thinking
[340.2s] one thing on another day another you
[342.0s] know sometimes you have the idea that
[343.4s] you know there's the God of the Old
[344.7s] Testament and the God of the of the new
[347.3s] that is not biblical the book of Isaiah
[349.8s] 40:7 to8 tells us the grass witherth and
[353.2s] the flower fadeth away because the
[355.1s] spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it.
[356.9s] Surely the people is grass. The grass
[359.7s] witherth and the flower fadeth away, but
[361.7s] the the word of the Lord shall stand
[363.5s] forever. So God's word number one stands
[365.9s] forever. The ideas that God presents
[368.4s] because God's a part of God's word is
[371.4s] specifically what he spoke in Genesis.
[373.4s] The ideas that he he presented at the
[375.4s] very foundation, they do not change.
[377.4s] They they are developed, they increase,
[379.8s] they are magnified. you know that um as
[381.8s] I said how one understands anything you
[383.7s] know calculus 101 calculus 102
[386.1s] mathematics 101 mathematics 102 that's
[388.4s] the same with heavenly principles that
[390.2s] God establishes of salvation of
[392.2s] sacrifice and of love or things of that
[394.0s] nature uh um another verse that actually
[397.2s] establishes that God himself does not
[399.2s] change Malachi 3:6 it says for I am the
[402.7s] Lord I change not therefore ye sons of
[406.0s] Jacob are not consumed and again Hebrews
[408.6s] chapter 13:8 Paul tells us that Jesus is
[411.9s] the same yesterday, today and forever.
[416.3s] So a a God does not change. Jesus does
[419.4s] not change. The word of God and the
[421.5s] principles found in it would not change.
[423.6s] Therefore, it is very safe for for us to
[425.8s] actually enter into a study of Genesis
[427.9s] to try and extract from it what God was
[429.8s] saying and to use it to understand the
[431.8s] rest of the Bible. And in fact, this
[433.7s] study will be very very fruitful as we
[435.4s] go on with a study especially of
[437.1s] sacrifice, salvation, and the and the
[438.9s] rest of the other themes, especially as
[440.6s] we're seeking to understand um some of
[442.7s] the symbols found in the book of
[444.0s] Revelation, for instance. Thank you.
[446.2s] That's very comforting to just um think
[448.5s] of the God that we serve that he he
[451.6s] abounds and he he he is true to his
[454.7s] word. You know, it will be very
[456.4s] terrifying when you're serving a king or
[458.3s] when you're serving anybody, even if you
[460.0s] even if it's your boss. Think about it.
[461.9s] If today when you walk to him he's this
[464.2s] is the principle he uses today then
[466.2s] tomorrow the principle changes then
[467.8s] another day the principle changes I
[469.8s] think they there is um a world
[472.1s] government today that people are really
[473.9s] scared of and people are saying I think
[475.8s] the biggest problem that I have is not
[477.9s] that these things are happening is that
[479.8s] they are so unpredictable but it is very
[482.7s] comforting to know that the government
[485.0s] that the true government that truly
[487.1s] matters does not change it holds it
[489.7s] holds true to what it has said Christ
[491.8s] himself writes and says that everything
[495.3s] away will pass but the words that are
[497.4s] written in this book they shall not pass
[499.8s] away. So my brother Raphael what are
[502.1s] some of the dangers of us u um probably
[506.4s] weakening um some of these uh truths
[509.0s] that we have heard over time even if
[510.9s] they have probably been presented in a
[513.2s] very logical fashion. How can we have
[515.7s] the Bible as an anchor especially
[517.5s] borrowing from this principle? Indeed um
[521.0s] Christ himself says uh it is easier for
[525.2s] the world to pass away than for even one
[527.7s] jotal title of the law to be changed. He
[530.2s] speaks thus in I think it's Matthew
[532.1s] 5:18. Uh and so uh it speaks to us as a
[537.4s] verse that came to mind as we were
[538.7s] looking at u the principle of first
[540.8s] mention is in proverbs 4:18. It says
[543.3s] that the path of the just is like the
[545.0s] sun, like the shining sun that shines
[547.8s] ever brighter unto the perfect day. That
[550.6s] indeed Genesis is like the first rays of
[553.8s] light to the world, the first book of
[556.1s] the Bible. And in the book of Genesis,
[558.9s] this first ray is as important as the
[562.0s] last rays of the sun which are in
[563.8s] Revelation. And so they're equally
[566.3s] effective. And so the path of the
[568.0s] justice is is the same. It simply tells
[569.8s] us that even in truth there is some
[572.1s] progression that even revelation itself
[574.5s] progresses slowly by slowly and so it is
[577.5s] important to go back to the beginning
[579.0s] that God first lays a lays a foundation
[581.4s] and this foundation is sure and if it is
[583.8s] the same God then he himself has said he
[587.0s] never changes and therefore truth which
[590.0s] is God's word truth is who god is you
[593.0s] know and and and uh in John 17:1 17 say
[596.2s] sanctify them by the truth your word is
[598.9s] The word is truth. In John 1:1, it says
[601.0s] in the beginning was the word and the
[602.6s] word was with God and the word was God.
[605.1s] So when God God is saying he doesn't
[607.0s] change, he means even his word doesn't
[609.0s] change. It means even his prophecies
[611.4s] will not change. And therefore in a
[613.8s] world where men men's interpretations uh
[617.3s] and and and and their perceptions and
[619.1s] their and and the attitudes towards the
[621.2s] Bible are changing, we as Christians
[623.8s] have an anchor that can keep the soul
[625.9s] steadfast and sure. And that is found in
[628.1s] the word of God and allowing the word of
[630.6s] God to interrupt to interpret itself uh
[634.2s] going by this principle of first
[636.4s] mention. Amen. Amen. Um reminds me of a
[640.6s] verse uh that has just come to mind in
[642.9s] the book of Psalms
[645.5s] 138:E2. The Bible writes and says, "I
[648.7s] will worship toward thy holy temple and
[651.4s] praise thy name for thy loving kindness
[654.0s] and for thy truth. For thou has
[657.3s] magnified thy word above all thy name
[661.1s] that God what he spoke even in Genesis
[665.0s] is so magnified even above his very own
[668.0s] name that God will obey even his word.
[671.0s] It was established. It is our anchor. It
[673.7s] can be our anchor today. Some people may
[676.1s] come up with funny doctrines. Go back to
[678.6s] the word. That can be your anchor today.
[681.8s] And I want us to start walking through
[683.7s] some of the most fundamental doctrines
[686.7s] that we have been revealed especially in
[688.9s] the book of Revelation. But we want to
[691.0s] see how they were first established in
[693.0s] the book of Genesis. And the first one I
[694.8s] want us to look at is God's love for us.
[698.1s] How was God's love first explained to us
[700.9s] in the book of Genesis? And how can we
[703.0s] relate to God's love today in a world
[705.4s] today where people say, "I don't think
[707.3s] anyone loves me. I don't think God loves
[709.4s] me. I don't understand what you mean
[711.4s] that there's a God unknown to me who
[713.6s] loves me." How was this principle first
[716.1s] portrayed? How is God's love first
[718.1s] portrayed? Brother Rafael, if you can
[719.7s] just open for us on that. All right. So,
[722.6s] going by even even in the lesson itself,
[725.2s] we are building from the principle of
[727.2s] first mention. And so going by this same
[729.7s] principle, we are looking at
[732.1s] understanding God's love. And we are
[734.7s] called to consider in the book of
[736.7s] Genesis chapter 22 where the Bible first
[740.2s] uses the word love. This is one of my
[742.2s] favorite chapters indeed. So he says uh
[745.0s] and it's in at the context in Genesis 22
[748.5s] verse 1-13. It's in the context of the
[751.2s] story of Abraham being asked to
[753.6s] sacrifice his son Isaac. The Bible
[757.2s] begins and says uh that God was testing
[759.9s] Abraham and he called Abraham uh God
[762.6s] called Abraham and Abraham replied and
[765.7s] said yes Lord. And then he says from my
[768.5s] version of the Bible it says in verse
[770.2s] two take your take with you your only
[774.7s] son. Yes, Isaac, whom you love so much,
[778.6s] and go to the land of Moriah and
[780.6s] sacrifice him there as a burnt offering
[782.8s] upon one of the mountains, which I'll
[784.9s] point out to you. You see, God is
[789.2s] acknowledging that Abraham loves his
[791.8s] son. Amen. He's acknowledging that there
[794.0s] there's a bond and and in fact he also
[796.2s] sort of acknowledges Abraham's rather
[799.7s] Isaac's worthiness as an air even if
[802.5s] there was Ishmael in the eyes of God the
[805.0s] child of the promise is the child called
[807.5s] Isaac and so he says this child whom you
[811.4s] love sacrifice him and there we see the
[815.0s] first mention of a
[818.2s] son yielding and obeying to the father
[821.0s] if you continue with the up to up to
[823.1s] verse 13, it says uh it says uh
[827.1s] eventually even Isaac himself obeyed. We
[829.8s] see a a father in obedience to God in
[834.9s] obedience to God offering his son
[837.4s] because he loved God. He offered his his
[840.5s] son. And we see a son who loved his
[843.8s] father and in order to please his
[845.7s] father's willing to be sacrificed. In
[848.5s] essence, it's the gospel story mentioned
[851.0s] to us first in the book of Genesis. The
[853.8s] gospel story illustrated to us. We see
[857.0s] for example uh this word love is later
[860.7s] on used by John in John 3:16. He says,
[863.4s] "For God so loved the world." We see
[866.2s] Abraham so loved God. But in this case,
[868.8s] it is God loving the world that he gave
[871.1s] his only begotten son that whosoever
[873.7s] believes in him should not what perish.
[875.7s] And Christ himself says he he also laid
[878.5s] down his life by in obedience like
[881.0s] Isaac. He he comes to the cross. You see
[883.8s] for example in the garden as he prays
[885.9s] take this cup away from me. But then
[887.3s] later on he says but not my will but
[889.4s] thine. Christ himself also submitting to
[891.9s] the will of the father. And the the
[894.4s] differences in these two stories is that
[897.3s] where Isaac was saved by God providing a
[901.0s] ram, Christ went the whole way. Christ
[904.1s] went the whole way. And so we see we
[906.6s] sort of try are called to sort of
[909.0s] understand the love of God through the
[911.3s] love of a father through his son.
[914.0s] Imagine a child of promise. A child that
[916.1s] you've waited for a child that you got
[917.6s] when you are around a 100 years old 99
[921.0s] your wife is your wife is is equally
[923.2s] old. The only child of your wife child
[925.7s] of promise then suddenly God says go up
[929.3s] this mountain and sacrifice this son.
[931.8s] But in obedience, in love, Abraham does
[935.0s] it. Abraham is willing to sacrifice
[938.1s] Isaac. It speaks to us about the love of
[940.6s] God. It speaks to us about about sin and
[944.2s] and and and and and how it had it had
[947.1s] consumed humanity to the extent that
[949.8s] Christ that God in seeing that there is
[951.8s] no way that man can save himself, God
[954.1s] gave his only begotten son and Christ
[956.5s] himself gives his life. Sister White
[959.6s] writes from the book great controversy
[961.1s] page 678 speaking about the love of God
[964.6s] which is one of the greatest concepts uh
[968.2s] as we begin also in the principle of
[969.8s] first mention the first book in the
[971.5s] conflict of the ages series is
[972.7s] patriarchs and prophets and it begins
[974.4s] and says what God is love the last book
[977.0s] is what great controversy and it ends
[979.1s] and says what God is love God is love
[981.3s] and she's and um the author quotes the
[984.4s] last paragraph of the book great
[986.6s] controversy and it says The entire
[989.0s] universe is clean. One pulse of harmony
[991.6s] and gladness beats through the vast
[993.3s] creation. From him who created all flow
[995.8s] life and light and gladness throughout
[998.2s] the realms of elimitable space. From the
[1000.8s] minutest atom to the greatest world, all
[1003.1s] things animate and inanimate in their
[1005.2s] unshadowed beauty and perfect joy
[1007.5s] declare that God is love. And so you see
[1010.9s] the theme of love and understanding
[1013.5s] God's love. Sometimes the as you shall
[1017.2s] see our understanding of love tells to
[1020.4s] be self-centered but the understanding
[1022.4s] of God is other of the love of God is
[1025.4s] other centered it puts the needs of man
[1028.5s] first it puts the needs of the one who
[1032.1s] the ones who have fallen the ones who
[1033.5s] are hurt the ones others it's other
[1036.2s] worldly love you know uh and so in
[1039.9s] helping us to understand God's love the
[1042.6s] story of Abraham and Isaac and many
[1044.9s] other stories in the Bible are given to
[1047.0s] us to enable us to understand truly this
[1050.0s] love of God. This love of God indeed the
[1053.5s] Bible uh the lesson author says it
[1055.7s] foreshadowed God's love for the human
[1057.3s] race. He loved us to the point where he
[1059.9s] gave his only begotten son. And so in
[1063.0s] understanding God's love, we have the
[1065.0s] example of a father Abraham giving his
[1068.2s] only begotten son.
[1070.3s] There are very many things that human
[1072.6s] beings do today to illustrate love. Um I
[1075.4s] think Valentine's is not too long ago
[1077.5s] when people celebrated love and people
[1079.3s] go out of their way to do crazy things
[1081.4s] depending on their financial mass.
[1083.6s] That's true. Some buying very expensive
[1086.4s] cars, wrapping them nicely. Yes. And you
[1089.4s] can imagine God who has endless
[1092.0s] resources could have used many diverse
[1095.2s] ways to illustrate his love toward us.
[1098.8s] But then he used a very interesting
[1101.0s] method to show us that my love can only
[1104.3s] be demonstrated by showing you what I am
[1106.8s] willing to give up, what I am willing to
[1109.4s] sacrifice. And he it's interesting that
[1111.8s] he the from the book of Genesis, we have
[1114.8s] an idea that truly God loves man. He can
[1117.8s] see God trying to pursue man. But in
[1119.9s] Genesis 22, he sets such an amazing
[1122.6s] scene where he shows that his love can
[1125.3s] only be demonstrated the way a father
[1127.7s] will be willing to give up his son. And
[1130.1s] by the way, I think for for Abraham, I
[1133.8s] think that was a small thing compared to
[1135.4s] what God gave up what God gave up for
[1138.1s] us. I think the question I would ask,
[1139.8s] what are some of the ways we can show
[1141.4s] that self-sacrificing love that God has
[1144.2s] demonstrated for us to other people? I
[1147.8s] would say number one uh the most
[1149.8s] important thing we can do is reveal uh
[1152.7s] uh uh the gospel to others. Paul tells
[1155.4s] Timothy, you are an epistle that I have
[1157.9s] written. So h in our character we can
[1160.7s] reveal um uh uh the love and the glory
[1163.4s] of God. I think it's in Matthew chapter
[1165.5s] 5 that Christ says what that um let this
[1168.7s] light so shine that others may see your
[1171.4s] good works and glorify your father in
[1172.9s] heaven. If we reveal Jesus Christ first
[1175.9s] of all in our works and secondly in the
[1177.8s] gospel we can be it's it's almost like
[1180.4s] you're pulling somebody out of fire. Uh
[1182.6s] the Bible explicitly tells us that the
[1184.2s] wages of sin is death. That means that
[1186.2s] your own dear friends whom you love so
[1188.1s] much if they're walking in a path out of
[1190.2s] harmony with the Lord they will surely
[1192.5s] die. But if you love your your brother
[1195.5s] and sister so much the best thing you
[1198.3s] can do is you try and pull them out of
[1200.6s] this fire. And how can you do that? by
[1202.9s] showing them the e the love of Christ in
[1206.7s] words, in actions, caring for them to
[1209.1s] lead them to the cross and to Jesus
[1211.0s] Christ. Obviously, also sacrificing our
[1213.6s] own goods and our resources and our
[1215.6s] energy to help other people is another
[1217.7s] very important means, but I would say
[1219.0s] the most important is trying to show
[1221.3s] them Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[1224.6s] Thank you so much. And actually just
[1226.8s] very good transition to uh what is being
[1229.5s] spoken of um on Tuesday. Um Isaac's
[1232.7s] question after he has been brought to um
[1235.7s] Mount Moria by Abraham his father he
[1239.0s] they did not come with a lamb. They came
[1241.8s] there to make a sacrifice but there was
[1243.8s] no lamb. And when um everything had been
[1246.8s] set up um in Genesis chapter 22:7
[1250.8s] um Isaac turns to his father and he's
[1253.2s] wondering father we have been doing a
[1255.0s] lot of sacrifices for a long time and we
[1257.4s] always have a lamb we have traveled a
[1259.4s] long journey but we have not come with a
[1261.5s] lamb and he asked this question and
[1263.2s] Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and
[1265.3s] said my father and he said here am I my
[1268.9s] son and he said behold the fire and the
[1271.7s] wood but where is the lamb lamb for a
[1275.0s] burnt offering. The lamb as a sacrifice
[1278.3s] even before Genesis chapter 22, we
[1281.0s] interact with it in Genesis chapter 4
[1284.2s] when um when Adam comes I Abel comes
[1287.8s] presenting a lamb as the first things of
[1290.5s] his flock as a sacrifice to to God for
[1293.9s] the penitence of his sins. We also
[1296.6s] actually interact with it um in Genesis
[1300.0s] 3 when we see Adam and Eve they are
[1303.5s] clothed with skins. A lamb had to die
[1306.5s] for them to be clothed. A lamb had to
[1308.5s] die to signify the lamb of God that will
[1311.3s] later come. That the very foundation of
[1314.1s] our salvation of a lamb being a
[1317.2s] substitute for what we would have
[1319.8s] suffered. But a lamb is presented first
[1322.5s] in Genesis 3, then in Genesis chapter 4,
[1326.0s] illustrating one important truth that we
[1330.3s] cannot save ourselves. We cannot die for
[1334.1s] ourselves. Yes, please God. Yeah. Yeah.
[1335.3s] I was going to say just to confirm that
[1336.7s] surely that lamb was slain and the skins
[1339.2s] like God didn't just like make skins,
[1341.0s] you know, like out of thin air. We know
[1342.8s] in the book of revelation says and all
[1345.2s] that dwell upon the earth shall worship
[1347.0s] him whose names are not written in the
[1348.9s] book of life of the lamb slain from the
[1351.4s] foundation of the world. So that was
[1353.9s] Christ being typified in that first
[1356.0s] sacrifice in Eden of that lamb that was
[1358.6s] slain and the skins formed. And so there
[1361.5s] might be many ideas that have come up
[1364.1s] later on. You know some people today
[1366.3s] believe that for the the path for you to
[1368.3s] be saved you have to do a lot of many
[1370.4s] good works and then depending on the
[1372.6s] number of good works you do then you
[1374.0s] will end up in heaven. Some I think our
[1376.3s] Muslim brothers believe that some
[1379.2s] Christians, our Catholic friends believe
[1381.5s] that you have to give penances and we um
[1385.0s] I was actually surprised a research you
[1386.9s] were doing recently and we find up to
[1389.3s] this day Catholics are still doing
[1392.1s] penances even though we know that the
[1394.4s] just shall live by faith. Today people
[1397.4s] are still um with actually today now it
[1400.2s] is the period of Lent that is going on
[1402.5s] and they are going around their churches
[1404.6s] crying screaming and we're going to see
[1406.5s] even when Easter is approaching we will
[1408.9s] see people being sacrificed people being
[1411.8s] slain yet it is only Christ himself who
[1414.7s] can save us from our sins. Christ and
[1417.2s] Christ alone. And so the question that
[1419.4s] many people ask the question that maybe
[1421.5s] you may be asking where is that lamp?
[1424.3s] The same way Isaac asked that question.
[1426.9s] The same way actually in the book of
[1428.6s] Revelation chapter 4 again we see a the
[1432.2s] throne room of heaven. Heaven is in a
[1434.2s] crisis and the question everyone is
[1436.6s] asking who is worthy to stand on behalf
[1440.2s] of sinful men. You may be asking who is
[1444.0s] that lamb who will die for me? Who is
[1446.1s] that who will come for my sac for to be
[1448.7s] sacrificed for my sin? The Bible
[1451.8s] responds and it is in our key text in
[1454.4s] the book of John
[1456.2s] 1:29. And John already looking at the
[1460.2s] sacrifices that had been given for a
[1462.8s] long time in the Old Testament. Now he
[1465.5s] sees that type has met antiype. That
[1469.4s] lamb that was shown in the Old Testament
[1471.6s] is now being typified in Christ Jesus.
[1474.6s] And he sees Christ working to him while
[1477.0s] he's baptizing many sinners. sinners
[1480.2s] representing their death into sin and to
[1482.6s] wake up in the resurrection of the
[1484.4s] newness of life. He points us and says,
[1487.3s] "Behold the lamb of God. The lamb you
[1489.8s] have been seeking for. Behold the lamb
[1492.1s] of God who takes away the sin of the
[1495.8s] world." It is comforting to know that
[1497.9s] there is a substitute for our sin today.
[1500.7s] A foundational truth established in the
[1503.4s] book of Sal in the book of Genesis. So
[1506.0s] what hope do we have? What hope do we
[1508.2s] have today? Or how can we be how can we
[1510.6s] be confident to stand in the judgment?
[1513.0s] In the book of Titus, I'd like us to
[1514.8s] consider the book of Titus uh chapter 3
[1517.6s] and verse 5. And it says the following.
[1519.9s] Not by works of righteousness which we
[1522.2s] have done but according to his mercy.
[1524.7s] Amen. He saved us by the washing of
[1527.0s] regeneration and the renewing of the
[1529.3s] Holy Ghost. That
[1532.0s] indeed questions Isaac's question still
[1535.2s] stands to this very day. In essence, he
[1538.1s] was
[1539.9s] asking how shall we be saved? How shall
[1543.0s] we sacrifice to God? You know, how shall
[1545.5s] we please God? Where is the lamb? Where
[1548.3s] is that perfect sacrifice that God will
[1550.4s] accept? You know, we live in an era and
[1552.7s] an age where sometimes I see ministers
[1554.6s] saying telling their congregants that
[1556.6s] have prayed for you, you know, I've seen
[1558.6s] ministers making judgment and saying you
[1560.7s] you can't go to heaven because of X, Y,
[1562.4s] and Zed. And I've seen people broken
[1565.0s] because they received words from
[1567.0s] ministers or because they couldn't do
[1569.2s] certain things. For example, um the holy
[1572.5s] month of Ramadan just ended and there
[1574.2s] were some people who are unwell, but
[1575.8s] they were really trying to fast. I could
[1577.2s] see they really trying to fast because
[1578.9s] they believe with all their heart that
[1580.9s] this is one of the five pillars of
[1583.2s] salvation of of of of being a good
[1585.2s] Muslim and which I believe translates to
[1587.6s] being saved, you know, and and that is
[1589.8s] to observe Ramadan every time it comes
[1592.0s] around. And I could see an old lady
[1594.5s] struggling, struggling, struggling,
[1596.2s] diabetic, but she's really struggling.
[1598.3s] She she she has she's she's unwell, but
[1600.5s] she really wants to fast. She really
[1601.8s] wants to fast. And and and I and I
[1603.9s] wondered and I looked at them and I
[1605.3s] said, "What marvelous faith?" But then
[1608.6s] such faith can be difficult for others,
[1611.0s] you know, and and such faith also to a
[1613.0s] certain extent sometimes can blind us
[1614.7s] and and and and and comfort us and and
[1617.1s] we feel that we have merited salvation.
[1619.5s] You see, Abraham is asked to sacrifice
[1621.9s] his only son. You know, his his his own
[1624.4s] life, the only thing he had ever wanted
[1625.9s] was a child, an heir. Then God answers
[1628.6s] this prayer. And now God wants his son.
[1631.0s] But even that is not enough. Eventually
[1633.7s] God puts in a lamb. God puts in a lamb.
[1636.8s] And this lamb typifies Christ. This lamb
[1640.5s] typifies the innocent dying for the
[1642.6s] guilty. You know, this lamb doesn't
[1644.6s] understand what's going on. It's simply
[1646.5s] offered at the altar. And there we see
[1649.1s] Christ. And so this truth is so
[1651.8s] foundational and it it helps to make the
[1655.0s] life of the Christian easy and sets many
[1658.5s] people free. You don't need to burden
[1660.5s] yourself. You don't need to to to to to
[1662.8s] fast for so long. You don't you don't
[1664.8s] need to strike yourself the way Luther
[1666.6s] was striking himself and going up uh on
[1669.4s] his knees on those stairs until he had
[1671.8s] in his mind that the just shall live by
[1674.7s] faith. Ephesians 2, it says, "I've been
[1677.0s] saved by grace through faith." And so,
[1680.2s] and so Christ truly is the answer.
[1682.9s] Christ is the only solution. The all of
[1685.4s] us who will go to heaven, from the thief
[1687.7s] on the cross to the one who has been
[1689.3s] faithful for 30 years, all will enter
[1692.0s] because of faith in Christ our Lord and
[1694.9s] our savior. He is the only perfect
[1697.4s] substitute. So where is that lamb? The
[1700.9s] Lord will provide for himself a lamb.
[1703.7s] That lamb is Christ Jesus. You do not
[1705.9s] need to die in your sins. I point you to
[1709.1s] the lamb that was slain. I want us to go
[1712.5s] to um another foundational doctrine. You
[1715.8s] know, coming from God's love, coming now
[1718.8s] to how salvation and how we can be saved
[1721.8s] and the sacrifice of God. It seems very
[1725.1s] strange for us to imagine that this God
[1728.2s] would let people die. If he loves us, if
[1732.4s] he's died for us, if he's died so that
[1734.2s] we cannot die, how can God let us die?
[1737.2s] How is this established in Genesis and
[1739.4s] how can we relate to it today? Moving on
[1741.4s] to the Wednesday part, how can we deal
[1743.4s] with death? Thank you so much. So uh uh
[1746.4s] we've established so many very important
[1748.6s] uh fundamental uh biblical doctrines.
[1751.2s] There's another very important one, the
[1753.5s] state of man in death. And uh if you
[1757.0s] look at for instance um many of you your
[1759.6s] science textbooks and and you look at um
[1762.1s] the idea that is presented of how people
[1764.4s] came to be it was the result of millions
[1767.2s] and millions of years of death and small
[1770.9s] improvement. uh uh so for instance you
[1773.6s] know uh the thing that was let's say the
[1775.8s] protohuman or the proto monkey the
[1777.5s] premonkey or the prehuman died and then
[1779.9s] advanced and more advanced versions of
[1781.5s] them arose up until homo sapiens
[1784.1s] ourselves and and and by then you see
[1787.4s] that death is almost an engine of
[1789.6s] improvement it is an engine it's it's
[1791.9s] like the reason why things are so nice
[1793.8s] right now why everything is so beautiful
[1795.4s] in the natural world is because of death
[1797.8s] and death was almost like like both
[1799.8s] natural and an essential part of of of
[1802.8s] existence. But from the scriptures that
[1804.8s] is not the case. From the scriptures
[1806.6s] death is actually a stranger. In the
[1808.5s] book of Genesis chapter 2 verse1 15-1 17
[1811.4s] we find and the Lord God took man and
[1813.8s] put him in the into the garden of Eden
[1815.8s] to dress it and to keep it. And the Lord
[1817.9s] God commanded man saying of every tree
[1820.2s] of the garden thou mayest h eat eat
[1823.5s] freely but of the tree of good and evil
[1826.1s] thou shalt not eat of it. For in the day
[1828.3s] that it is thereof, thou shalt surely
[1830.7s] die. surely die. And h if you actually
[1834.2s] go for yourself to look at the Hebrew,
[1836.7s] it's saying almost that in dying you
[1838.6s] shall die. It's like saying you shall
[1840.1s] totally, completely, and surely die. It
[1842.2s] is an introduction of death. It is not a
[1844.3s] new type of death, an advanced version
[1846.2s] of death. It is simply death that is
[1848.2s] being introduced and brought into the
[1849.9s] human experience. This tells us that
[1852.2s] death is a stranger. So when we say,
[1854.5s] "Oh, death is just a part of life." Yes,
[1856.9s] it is not a part of life. It is it is a
[1859.3s] part that it happens right now, but it
[1861.8s] is a stranger. It is alien that it was
[1864.1s] not there before. It was not part of
[1865.6s] God's plan. And then another thing that
[1868.5s] we find is um in the book of 1
[1871.1s] Corinthians chapter 15 to 19, we find
[1874.2s] that the solution to that the gospel a
[1877.4s] key part of the gospel is the end of
[1879.4s] death. Key part that means that death
[1881.4s] had a beginning and death will have an
[1882.9s] end. That is there will come a point in
[1884.9s] time when further in the future there
[1887.0s] shall be no such thing as death. We are
[1889.3s] told in 1 Corinthians 15:15-19,
[1892.4s] "Yay, we are found false witnesses of
[1895.0s] God because we have testified of of God
[1897.8s] that he raised up Christ whom he raised
[1900.2s] not up, if so be that the dead rise
[1902.6s] not." That an essential part of the
[1905.2s] gospel and of the message of Christ is
[1907.0s] that Christ conquered death, that he
[1909.1s] defeated death. Verse 16, for if the
[1912.0s] dead rise not, then is Christ not
[1913.8s] raised. And if Christ be not raised,
[1916.0s] then what? Your faith is what? Your
[1918.3s] faith is in vain, and you are yet in
[1920.8s] your sins. Then they also which have
[1922.9s] fallen asleep in Christ are perished.
[1925.0s] And if in this life we only we have hope
[1927.5s] in Christ, we are of all men most
[1930.2s] miserable. So that means that an
[1933.0s] essential part of the gospel is that
[1935.1s] death is being brought to an end. Death
[1937.1s] came and death is going away. Death is
[1939.4s] it is real. It is not that like you
[1941.4s] won't lie to yourself and say that you
[1943.0s] know I am I have now become immortal. We
[1945.0s] have become immortal uh in in a sense by
[1948.1s] faith as we trust in God expecting the
[1950.6s] the resurrection to come. But right now
[1952.7s] death is a real thing but it is an it is
[1954.7s] a stranger. It is an enemy and it shall
[1957.4s] be 100% defeated. Why? By who? By Jesus
[1960.8s] Christ who in Revelation 1:18 says I am
[1963.9s] he that lives and was dead and behold I
[1967.0s] am alive forever more. Amen. And have
[1969.4s] the keys of hell and of death. So I know
[1974.8s] others may say that death is this
[1976.4s] natural thing. It's a normal thing. That
[1978.8s] is not uh uh the biblical way, the
[1981.6s] Christian way. And if we're looking at h
[1984.9s] from the foundations of Genesis for
[1986.5s] death, we find that death is an alien.
[1988.9s] And that if you look at the h in the
[1990.9s] book of revelation, we find that death
[1992.6s] will be defeated. It is the last enemy
[1995.4s] to be a to be destroyed. the last enemy
[1998.2s] to be destroyed without the problem of
[2001.4s] death being solved. What happens to our
[2003.6s] faith? I know he alluded to it, but
[2005.4s] maybe you can break it down for a few
[2007.1s] seconds. Indeed. I think um one aspect
[2010.7s] uh I feel like we also need to to
[2013.8s] understand is even the way death itself
[2016.1s] is mentioned, you know, uh it's not
[2018.2s] mentioned as a shifting from one arena
[2021.7s] to another. Yes. You know when God says
[2023.9s] in the day that you shall eat of this
[2025.5s] fruit you will die. He did not mean that
[2027.6s] they will move from Eden to heaven. You
[2030.8s] know maybe become cats. Oh yeah or or
[2033.4s] reincarnate you know and and and and
[2035.8s] come in a different it he simply meant
[2038.5s] they will cease to exist for a period of
[2040.9s] time you know. Uh but in that I believe
[2043.6s] in that in that classical nature there
[2046.3s] it meant cease to exist ultimately
[2048.6s] forever you know. And so and so uh when
[2051.8s] we speak about death sometimes we tend
[2054.6s] to comfort ourselves that our brethren
[2057.1s] have gone to a better place you know or
[2059.5s] if there was a if there they really they
[2061.4s] were really wicked you know they've gone
[2063.5s] somewhere where God is melting out
[2065.8s] punishment you know they were
[2066.9s] untouchable here on earth they could
[2068.1s] bribe judges they could do all these
[2069.8s] things but I'm sure when they die they
[2072.7s] he they'll be taken to hell and they'll
[2074.6s] be get they'll get whipped you know etc
[2076.8s] etc but the Bible speaks to us and tells
[2078.8s] us that indeed Indeed uh death uh is not
[2082.1s] a transition but rather is is is a state
[2084.6s] of unconsciousness and and and and it's
[2087.4s] a sensation stop. It's a sensation of
[2089.0s] life and in fact the Bible equates death
[2091.6s] to sleep you know and so uh many many
[2095.2s] texts come to mind but this one thing uh
[2099.0s] it tells us that even the very first
[2101.1s] time that death is mentioned it is
[2103.2s] mentioned as a consequence of sin. Yes.
[2105.6s] And therefore the only solution to death
[2109.2s] would be to deal must first of all deal
[2111.5s] with sin. And so Christ once again is
[2113.9s] the answer. You see Christ's dying on
[2116.4s] the cross and ultimately resurrecting
[2118.6s] three days later shows to showed to us
[2122.5s] he indeed who is the firstborn from the
[2125.0s] dead. You know he showed to us that
[2127.2s] indeed death itself will die. showed to
[2129.7s] us that indeed death has has been dealt
[2133.4s] with and death itself has been defeated
[2135.9s] and it speaks of a time to come. It
[2138.6s] speaks of the promise of resurrection.
[2140.4s] It speaks of of of hope and of joy.
[2143.0s] Isaiah writes in in the book of Isaiah
[2146.0s] uh 26 verse 19 and it says from my my
[2149.8s] translation it says yet we have this
[2151.8s] assurance those who belong to God shall
[2154.1s] live again. Their bodies shall rise
[2157.0s] again. Those who dwell in the dust shall
[2159.0s] awake and sing for joy for God's light
[2160.9s] of life will fall like dew upon them.
[2163.8s] Isaiah speaks about a resurrection.
[2166.1s] Isaiah speaks about um and in essence
[2169.3s] he's telling us that the dead are on the
[2171.5s] ground. you know, they're not in heaven.
[2173.5s] And then and then then and there's that
[2175.0s] that promise of resurrection. And uh and
[2177.6s] as you say, there are many other many
[2179.3s] other texts. First Thessalonians
[2181.6s] 4:16-17, Paul himself speaking to the
[2184.2s] Thessalonians is telling them when you
[2186.1s] cry for you are dead. It means crying.
[2189.9s] Crying is natural because death is an
[2191.8s] invader. Something there's a violation
[2193.8s] that has happened. A loved one has been
[2195.6s] taken away from you crually. You know,
[2197.5s] there's some pain there. So cry. It's
[2199.3s] okay to cry. But he says, "Do not cry as
[2202.0s] those who do not have hope." Because
[2204.6s] those who die in the faith, those who
[2206.6s] die with with a relationship with
[2208.8s] Christ, he says, in fact, they given
[2211.4s] priority. It says, "The dead in Christ
[2213.9s] shall rise." Amen. Amen. And you know,
[2217.6s] he read to us this passage that says,
[2220.4s] "If thou shalt eat of this fruit, then
[2222.6s] thou shalt surely die in the book of
[2224.7s] Genesis." Uh, I want us to go to why it
[2228.7s] actually
[2230.0s] came into this world. What really
[2232.2s] happened? Um viewer, I just want to
[2235.3s] remind you of some of the principles
[2236.7s] that we have reviewed so far in the
[2239.0s] book. We are helping you to study the
[2240.6s] book of Revelation to help you
[2242.4s] understand how to unravel it. It looks
[2244.5s] like a book that's difficult to
[2245.9s] understand, but we we've laid down a
[2248.1s] foundation of certain principles. When
[2249.8s] you open the book of Revelation, you
[2251.8s] will find a few things mentioned there.
[2254.2s] first he has just mentioned it is that
[2256.6s] Christ is the one who has the key to
[2259.0s] death and hell when you just see that
[2262.3s] and to the grave yes so we want to we've
[2264.5s] gone back to the book of Genesis because
[2266.5s] we know John is not writing in isolation
[2269.5s] he's referencing terms already known
[2271.8s] which were established in gen in Genesis
[2274.4s] the second thing that we have seen
[2275.9s] mentioned in the book of revelation is
[2278.2s] about the love letters Christ writing to
[2280.6s] his church you know at first tells them
[2282.1s] you have forgotten your first love and
[2284.3s] we've gone back to see the foundation of
[2286.3s] that love as laid down in the book of
[2289.0s] Genesis help key tips to help you
[2291.5s] understand the things that John is
[2293.7s] mentioning in the book of revelation
[2295.4s] where do they stem from then in the book
[2297.5s] of revelation chapter 4 John speaks
[2300.0s] about this lamb that was seen and we go
[2302.9s] we've gone back to show you what that
[2304.9s] lamb represented it represents our
[2307.0s] salvation so when you open the book of
[2309.0s] revelation chapter 4 you need to
[2311.0s] understand where this concept was set up
[2313.0s] in uh where they were first set up. Um
[2315.6s] and then in the book of Revelation
[2317.3s] chapter 13, a very interesting symbol is
[2320.1s] used here as well. And I want us to go
[2322.4s] to see first where that symbol came in
[2324.7s] and actually how death came into this
[2327.3s] world. It speaks of a serpent. Um
[2330.8s] actually it's it's first introduced in
[2332.5s] Revelation 12 of this serpent that um
[2335.6s] pursues this woman. So please break it
[2337.9s] down for us. um from the serpent we see
[2340.6s] in the garden of Eden to how death was
[2343.3s] introduced into this world. Indeed uh it
[2347.2s] speaks to us about the serpent and it's
[2349.7s] found in the book of revelation uh 12
[2353.0s] and verse 1-9 and revelation 12:1-9
[2357.0s] speaks about war in heaven and um it
[2360.6s] says there was war in heaven and Michael
[2362.8s] and his angels fought against uh the
[2365.5s] dragon and his angels and then in verse
[2367.7s] 9 the bible takes time to explain to us
[2371.1s] who exactly is this dragon in verse
[2374.9s] The following is is is recorded and it
[2379.5s] says this great dragon, the ancient
[2382.6s] serpent called the devil or Satan, the
[2385.6s] one deceiving the whole world, was
[2388.0s] thrown down onto the earth with all his
[2390.6s] army. He tells us about war in heaven
[2393.9s] and one of the parties that was defeated
[2397.2s] was thrown where? On earth. And he's
[2399.6s] referred to as an ancient serpent when
[2401.9s] in the book of Revelation. And so we
[2404.0s] realize this serpent was thrown where to
[2406.3s] the earth. And though when we go to
[2408.2s] Genesis 3 verse 1:5, lo and behold, we
[2412.5s] see a woman and a serpent. An encounter
[2415.3s] between uh uh Eve and and and and a
[2419.4s] serpent. And we see in that encounter,
[2422.1s] the devil comes and and and and once
[2425.8s] again, what does he do? He deceives Eve.
[2428.6s] Bible records in verse in chapter in
[2430.6s] chapter 3:1 of Genesis the serpent was
[2433.4s] the craftiest of all the creatures the
[2435.2s] Lord God had made and the serpent came
[2437.4s] to the woman and said really you know he
[2441.5s] asked none of the fruit in the garden
[2443.7s] God says you mustn't eat any of it this
[2446.1s] is my translation and it continues very
[2448.1s] conversational translation very
[2449.3s] conversational translation indeed yes
[2450.9s] but it's called the Bible in basic
[2452.1s] English okay uh in in simple in simple
[2454.9s] English generally and so it continues
[2456.9s] and eventually Actually uh the serpent
[2460.2s] lies to the woman. And he says in verse
[2462.2s] four, he says that's a lie. The serpent
[2465.8s] said you'll not die. God knows very well
[2468.8s] that the instant you eat of this you
[2470.7s] will become like him for your eyes will
[2473.0s] be open and you will be able to
[2474.6s] distinguish between what? Good and evil.
[2478.0s] You will have a knowledge of good and
[2479.8s] evil. And so we see some parallels in
[2482.4s] Revelation. We were told this the dragon
[2485.2s] is is a serpent who is also the devil.
[2487.7s] He fought in heaven and as a result of
[2490.0s] losing he was sent where to the earth
[2492.1s] and he's known as an ancient serpent. In
[2494.4s] essence it's almost like the revelator
[2496.6s] is telling us let's go look for a
[2498.2s] serpent somewhere in the past. And when
[2500.7s] you go to to the book of Genesis, indeed
[2502.8s] you don't need to move very far. That's
[2504.6s] the third chapter, it tells us about old
[2507.1s] serpent. That's old serpent. That
[2508.8s] ancient serpent. And so we see Satan
[2511.8s] using the medium of a snake. Using the
[2516.4s] medium of a snake and he's able to do
[2518.2s] what? To lie to Eve. Similarly also we
[2521.2s] are told as you continue with the with
[2523.0s] scripture, it says that the devil lies
[2524.9s] to the whole world. And most of the time
[2527.2s] as you as you move on now to chapter 13,
[2529.5s] you will realize that once again the
[2531.7s] devil uses other beasts. He uses other
[2534.5s] mediums. He doesn't come directly. He's
[2537.4s] he's
[2538.5s] he's in the veil. He's behind there.
[2541.7s] He's hidden somewhere. That's very
[2543.3s] interesting. The same way he presented
[2545.0s] himself at the beginning at the
[2546.6s] beginning is the same way he's
[2548.4s] presenting himself in this last days. In
[2551.3s] fact, in Revelation chapter 13, we see
[2553.3s] he's using certain beast powers, certain
[2555.8s] kingdoms, as we saw, as we established
[2558.0s] that beasts are kingdoms. He's using
[2560.3s] political uh entities, movements and and
[2563.8s] and and and u and systems to push his
[2567.2s] agenda. And more often than not,
[2569.7s] sometimes some of these um entities are
[2573.5s] not only political but also religious.
[2576.1s] You know there's that aspect of saying
[2578.7s] offering the opening of eyes. We live in
[2581.4s] an age in which everybody is calling is
[2583.6s] looking for enlightenment. Everybody is
[2585.7s] like the the age of enlightenment, the
[2587.6s] age of reason, the age of uh of all of
[2590.4s] new agism. You know a lot of uh a lot of
[2593.6s] um what is perceived as new truth which
[2595.5s] is actually an old lie uh is is emerging
[2599.0s] today. and and and and we see in essence
[2603.1s] from the from Genesis up to Revelation
[2606.6s] the character of God and the character
[2608.6s] of the devil are more or less
[2610.2s] consistent. the the teams as they play
[2612.4s] out, the way the way that it's it's it's
[2615.3s] like if you know the way a coach coaches
[2617.7s] his team, you know, this is the way he
[2619.8s] he he he he likes his formation and and
[2623.7s] and with this understanding then we can
[2626.0s] be able to understand and to trace the
[2627.7s] great controversy from Genesis all the
[2629.9s] way to Revelation.
[2632.0s] Amen. Um very interesting in the book of
[2634.5s] John chapter 8 verse44 again God uh
[2638.6s] Christ referencing all the way from the
[2640.5s] beginning it says ye are of your father
[2643.2s] the devil and the last of your father ye
[2645.8s] will do. He was a murderer from the
[2649.0s] beginning from the beginning and abode
[2652.0s] not in the truth. You know Revelations
[2654.8s] said he was that deceiver. He was a
[2657.2s] deceiver from the beginning. He deceived
[2659.1s] Eve. He deceived us. And I liked the way
[2661.4s] you just brought it out to say oh uh he
[2664.2s] presents himself in the same way as a
[2667.2s] medium does not necessarily come
[2669.0s] directly. I just want to um ask today
[2672.1s] when we are um looking at some of the um
[2675.4s] some of the truths being presented or
[2677.3s] doctrines being presented today. How has
[2680.0s] that serpent revealed himself as a
[2682.1s] deceiver today? What are some of the
[2684.0s] lies that we have accepted today but
[2687.1s] they have actually been given to us by
[2689.9s] the serpent and as Eve did accepted the
[2692.8s] lies of the serpent we are also
[2694.8s] partaking of them today. Thank you. I
[2697.0s] think it's what um uh my brother he was
[2699.3s] referencing the idea the the it's packed
[2702.2s] as a new age idea. It is the simple idea
[2705.4s] that we are a law unto ourselves. That
[2707.9s] we represent a truth unto ourselves.
[2710.1s] That we of our own accord without divine
[2712.4s] revelation without the word of God can
[2714.4s] come to truths. Which in part is true.
[2717.9s] In part in the book of revelation we are
[2719.6s] told that in a sense a a a every single
[2723.5s] person has in a sense um some reference
[2726.2s] of the law, some reference here and
[2728.0s] there of truth. But it is it is like a
[2729.9s] mirror that is sorry. It is like a ruler
[2731.7s] that is broken. a ruler that is it is
[2733.6s] correct in parts but incorrect in other
[2735.1s] parts and therefore it is not useful for
[2737.2s] for
[2737.9s] for a consistent application. And so in
[2741.0s] truth if we start following our own
[2742.2s] hearts you know the idea do what the w
[2745.2s] do what you want to do follow your heart
[2747.4s] that is one of the most dangerous ideas
[2749.8s] that can uh drive um somebody's life but
[2753.2s] unfortunately that is a common me
[2755.3s] message a common idea that is present
[2757.2s] throughout almost all forms of media to
[2759.4s] this very day. Another similar idea idea
[2761.8s] that there are many other parts. You
[2763.8s] know Jesus Jesus Christ said explicitly
[2766.5s] I am the way the truth and the life. No
[2770.0s] man comes to the father except by me.
[2772.0s] And then all of a sudden a new message
[2773.8s] is given today that there are many paths
[2776.2s] there are many ways there are many
[2777.7s] truths. That is extremely dangerous. It
[2780.6s] is like um uh if you look at water and
[2783.4s] if you look at other fluids that look
[2785.2s] like water you know something like
[2786.6s] glycerine which has a like it appears
[2789.0s] like water h I'm sure even like um if I
[2792.6s] remember my chemistry correctly even
[2794.2s] hydrochloric acid is clear you know it
[2796.7s] perfectly looks like in a sense but I am
[2799.0s] very certain if you drink that thing
[2800.2s] like water it will have highly delarious
[2802.4s] and dangerous effects so it is very very
[2805.0s] dangerous for us to think that we can
[2806.8s] establish truth for ourselves and that
[2809.1s] is the singular and the and the greatest
[2811.4s] lie which the devil again you know
[2813.1s] Genesis foundations that he began in the
[2815.4s] book of Genesis and we can see that lie
[2817.5s] being consistently given when when when
[2820.4s] the devil made Jesus Christ in the book
[2822.0s] of Matthew 4:1 to uh to 10 the devil
[2825.7s] used almost the same means there was a
[2828.4s] word that was given in Genesis 2 to Adam
[2830.9s] and Eve what was the word don't eat of
[2833.4s] these fruits and then the devil
[2835.4s] challenged them and said you know what
[2836.7s] if God is is is is lying and hiding
[2839.4s] something. It's the same thing in the
[2841.1s] book of Matthew 3:17. I believe God says
[2844.6s] what? This is my beloved son in whom I
[2847.8s] am well pleased. And then what does the
[2849.6s] devil do in Matthew chapter 4? If you
[2851.2s] are the son of God, if you are God's
[2853.2s] son, you see he's already doubting that
[2855.3s] which has explicitly been the word of
[2857.0s] God. Planting doubt that is a consistent
[2859.8s] refrain, a consistent message of Satan.
[2861.8s] We must first of all note it and
[2864.2s] recognize it quickly and then do what
[2866.5s] Jesus Christ did and stick plainly upon
[2868.7s] the word of God and and resist the
[2870.9s] enemy. And the enemy we are told will
[2872.6s] flee. We are told three times he tried
[2874.4s] and then immediately he he he like he
[2876.7s] fled and and Christ was ministered to by
[2879.3s] angels. Matthew 4:10. You and I, if we
[2882.6s] stand firm in the truth, stand firm in
[2884.6s] the word of God in especially the
[2886.6s] foundations we established in the book
[2887.8s] of Genesis throughout in fact the entire
[2889.6s] scriptures, then we can be sound and
[2891.6s] sure against the attacks of the enemy.
[2894.2s] Amen. Amen. We are running out of time.
[2897.7s] I really did want us to just dive into a
[2900.1s] few erroneous doctrines that today
[2902.4s] people have misinterpreted the
[2903.8s] scripture. Maybe they have called the
[2906.2s] the serpent as something else. remember
[2908.2s] I think we were saying the two uh uh
[2910.5s] horns in the book of Daniel uh people
[2913.3s] saying that those are the two twin
[2914.7s] towers you know maybe because people
[2916.8s] didn't go back to the principles of
[2918.4s] first mention I don't know how you have
[2920.1s] read the book of revelation before in
[2921.8s] the past and what you have misunderstood
[2924.0s] from it what you have heard what are the
[2925.5s] ideas of the serpent clearly you can see
[2927.8s] the serpent was first established in the
[2930.1s] book of Genesis you do not need to look
[2932.4s] for new and fancy ways of interpreting
[2934.9s] scripture you just need to go back to
[2937.3s] when they were first established, when
[2939.1s] the doctrine was first established in
[2941.2s] scripture for you to better understand
[2943.3s] the Bible. I want to go back to the my
[2945.4s] panelist for us to for them to give us
[2947.6s] even um a few more principles of how you
[2950.7s] can uh that you can apply when you're
[2952.8s] studying the book of Revelation and
[2954.4s] especially the Bible in your Bible
[2956.2s] studies in your devotion tomorrow. What
[2958.3s] are some of those principles? And as
[2960.2s] they give us one of a few of those
[2961.8s] principles, I want us to also uh for
[2964.0s] them to give us their key takeaways for
[2966.6s] you to have a very a key takeaway as we
[2969.0s] close this lesson discussion today.
[2971.2s] We'll start with you my brother Raphael.
[2973.2s] All right. So um in one of my key
[2976.2s] takeaways is from the Wednesday bit
[2978.6s] where when it speaks about how the
[2982.3s] problem of death being solved and in
[2984.4s] essence the problem of death being
[2985.4s] solved was the resurrection. I find
[2987.0s] there's a question is asking what is the
[2988.8s] significance of the resurrection. I
[2990.6s] think one the resurrection confirms that
[2992.9s] Christ is indeed the son of God. You
[2994.7s] know in Romans chapter 1 and verse4 we
[2996.8s] told that he was declared to be the son
[2998.6s] of God with power. How? By the
[3000.9s] resurrection from the dead. It also
[3003.0s] speaks to us and tells us that uh it
[3005.1s] validates our faith. You know uh later
[3007.7s] elsewhere in 1 Corinthians chapter 15
[3009.4s] and verse 14 Paul is is is is sort of uh
[3013.2s] um I would say pontificating and
[3014.6s] arguing. is making an argument and it
[3016.4s] said and if Christ is not risen then our
[3019.0s] preaching what is in vain and our faith
[3021.4s] is also in vainless. Yes. Therefore
[3023.4s] without the resurrection Christianity is
[3025.1s] just another moral philosophy and just
[3027.1s] another among many. Yes. But we realize
[3030.2s] with the resurrection Christianity
[3032.2s] becomes a balanced diet. It's the whole
[3034.2s] thing you know from here to eternity.
[3036.5s] Amen. And so I think that that's an
[3038.6s] important that's an important aspect uh
[3040.7s] what the resurrection answers and there
[3042.2s] are many other things that is it shows
[3043.5s] the power of God over sin. It shows the
[3045.7s] power of God over creation. It simply
[3047.8s] shows the might and the power of God.
[3050.1s] And so um one of the principles that we
[3053.6s] use Bible prophecy that's equally
[3055.8s] important uh as as as part now to answer
[3059.0s] the the former part of your question is
[3061.8s] that the Bible is sort of like a jigsaw
[3064.9s] puzzle. And so don't read uh a
[3068.4s] particular text in isolation. It's
[3071.0s] important to read in context. But also
[3073.4s] sometimes as as you can see in
[3075.8s] revelation you hear of a dragon and a
[3077.7s] serpent. Then if you go back to Genesis
[3079.7s] you realize there's actually a serpent
[3081.8s] there who comes and who lies and you can
[3084.2s] be able to see there sort of some
[3085.9s] archetypes there there sort of some some
[3088.2s] themes uh that that that are that that
[3091.1s] are consistent and that are able to to
[3093.2s] teach us. And so there's a principle of
[3094.8s] here a little, there a little, comparing
[3096.9s] scripture to scripture and building up
[3099.2s] uh uh the whole the whole picture. Amen.
[3101.7s] Amen. Thank you. Uh for me very quickly
[3104.4s] uh a principle which I feel is very very
[3106.8s] important. Second Peter 1 20 and 21
[3110.2s] knowing this first that no prophecy of
[3113.0s] the scriptures is of any private
[3114.6s] interpretation. Why? For prophecy came
[3117.2s] not in old time by the will of men but
[3119.3s] holy men of God who spake as they were
[3121.4s] moved by who? The Holy Ghost. the Holy
[3123.2s] Ghost. That means that given that all of
[3125.4s] the authors of the scriptures were in
[3127.1s] effect prophets because they received a
[3128.8s] message from God that are communicating
[3130.6s] that means the whole Bible was inspired
[3133.0s] by the Holy Spirit. How do you
[3135.4s] understand the text? By asking the
[3137.4s] author. Pray and ask for more of the
[3139.7s] Holy Spirit and God will give you this
[3141.5s] insight and understanding. Uh quickly a
[3144.2s] a part of the this lesson that resonated
[3147.5s] is the idea of the great controversy
[3149.5s] theme that's found in Genesis chapter 3.
[3151.6s] The idea that there is a battle uh uh
[3154.2s] between uh uh Christ and the devil uh uh
[3157.7s] not that it is an equal battle. I think
[3159.3s] this is people misunderstood. It's not
[3160.7s] that we are equal parties. Christ is
[3163.0s] infinite in every sense. The devil is a
[3165.1s] finite being. It just so happens the
[3167.0s] devil e deceives and lies and Christ
[3169.7s] speaks only the truth. And there is a a
[3172.7s] a a great conflict from the very
[3174.9s] beginning that is found in Genesis 3
[3176.6s] that continues on. And if you follow
[3178.5s] that battle, so many things in the
[3180.6s] scriptures make so much sense and
[3182.0s] culminates in the book of revelation.
[3184.1s] Amen. Well, then thank you so much for
[3186.2s] joining us today. What I will say is
[3188.4s] that you know for the disciples and the
[3190.8s] apostles, they only had the Old
[3193.4s] Testament. They did not have the New
[3195.1s] Testament. But we see Paul spending time
[3198.2s] with Jesus in the Arabian desert. that
[3200.6s] by the time he came out of the Arabian
[3202.6s] desert, he saw nothing but Jesus in all
[3206.0s] the text of the Old Testament. Now that
[3208.9s] can be you as well, my viewer, if you
[3211.0s] spend time with Jesus and if you spend
[3213.3s] time in the word, you can see Jesus
[3216.6s] spotted in every passage of scripture,
[3219.6s] especially in the book of Revelation. He
[3222.2s] writes it himself. I invite you to study
[3225.1s] with us the book of Revelation and to
[3226.9s] join us this quarter. Thank you so much
[3229.1s] for joining us. My brother Jafet, would
[3231.0s] you kindly pray with us as we close?
[3232.7s] Thank you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father,
[3235.0s] we thank you for the opportunity given
[3236.4s] us to have done this study. We ask for
[3239.0s] more of your spirit. Um uh that you help
[3241.4s] us to apply the truths that we learned
[3243.1s] about the Genesis foundations that the
[3245.6s] foundations we have learned of, uh the
[3247.8s] message of salvation and of your love
[3250.1s] that you have for us and of the conflict
[3252.6s] that is before us. that all these things
[3255.0s] may may be impressed upon our hearts
[3257.0s] that we may live in a way that glorifies
[3258.8s] your name. In Jesus name I pray. Amen.
[3261.4s] Amen. Amen. Thank you.