Title: Lesson 12 || Precursors || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: WTQisu8M25Y
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WTQisu8M25Y
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Good morning and happy Sabbath. Thank you so much for joining us today at New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, 5th Gong Avenue at our weekly Sabbath school lesson study today. We are glad you're here this Sabbath and we are praying that the Lord will speak to us even as we study together. I am joined by two panelists to help us study this lesson that we have been going through of illusions, symbols and images as God uses them in Bible prophecy to help us to understand certain prophetic messages revealed for those who will be living in these last days. Very key messages, but God wrapped them in in symbols made for us to be able to understand and to be able to relate to. that this week we will be studying precursors. And I'm excited about this because it shows that God forsaw what his children would go through in the last days and made sure that there are enough stories, enough images and samples even in history that would help us to prepare for those days. I want our two panelists to introduce themselves. We will pray and then we will start start this discussion together. We will start with you my husband. Uh thank you. My name is Jafetrono. Thank you for joining us today. My name is Enongo Rafa. So it's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for brother Rafael for joining us today. Um kindly pray with us even as we start today. Great. Thank you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are so thankful for the opportunity to do to part participate in this uh discussion on precursors as we're going through the lessons found in the book of Daniel and in the lessons of the disciples and their experiences um expressing their faith in the New Testament. May your Holy Spirit give us insight and understanding. May Jesus Christ be glorified in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Our key text today comes from the book of 2 Timothy 1:7. Brother Raphael, would you kindly read that for us? 2 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 7. Reading from the New King James Version of the Bible, he records and says, "For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind." And you know, we've been discussing about the kingdoms of this world and how they have been set up. And we talked about how in the last days, God is going to bring a destruction of these kingdoms. But before the destruction of these kingdoms happen, we are going to see a persecution of God's people. The church of God will go through troubles times. A time of trouble such has never been seen in this world or has ever been thought of or imagined will be seen in our world. Yet God gives assurance to his children. He tells them, "Let not your heart be troubled." And he assures us that we should not have a spirit of fear. You know, the Bible says in the book of um Isaiah that when you pass through the waters, when you pass through the fire, I will be with you. The waters will not overwhelm you. The fire will not burn you. It will not consume you. I will be with you. And this is the assurance even in these precursors. God wants us to give what God wants to give us the same assurance that what went um what the children of Israel went through in the past the same way they overcame it is in the same way we are going to overcome even in these last days when we stand faith for that which we have believed two very amazing stories that we look at today but before we go into those stories I want us to just look at how we interpret um Bible prophecy especially as we look back into some historical um um um depictions of prophecy. How do we interpret it? You know, some people say the antichrist will come in the future. The antichrist already came in the past. But how do we when we look at Bible prophecy as seventh day Adventist and indeed how we should interpret it? Um what biblical approach we should take? What what method did Christ use to interpret prophecy? And I want you to um start for us uh brother Raphael by taking us to Daniel chapter 2 and just talking to us about our historic our our approach to Bible prophecy. Indeed. Um uh the lesson today is uh aptly uh uh named precastle almost echoing what uh we we read prior in prior lessons in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 11 telling us now all these things happened unto them for examples and they were written for admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come and then he continues also I think you you you made a reference to Romans 15 and verse4 uh where we are once again encouraged Whatever things were written before were written for our learning that we through the patience and the comfort of the scriptures might have hope. And so it is with this in mind that we approach the book of Daniel. It is this in mind that we approach the book of Daniel a prophetic book and it has got a lot of messages and it's a book uh that many have stumbled in terms of interpreting it. But the most proper way of interpreting the text is to interrogate the text. And the beautiful thing with the book of Daniel is that it explains itself. We have um Nebuchadnezzar, a king, a Babylonian king who has a dream and uh his first vision uh in the night. This dream is recorded in Daniel chapter 2. Later on Daniel himself is given dreams now by God in Daniel chapter 7 as well as in Daniel chapter 8. And all these um uh connect in one long line of truth that God gradually breaks down for us. And therefore when we are approaching Daniel chapter 2, it is an object lesson to the historicist approach to prophecy. The historicist approach to prophecy simply says that the prophet uh a prophecy that um a prophet has begins during their time and runs all the way until the end of the world. It is a very chronological and literal um uh breakdown of time. And this is quite accurate uh quite accurately depicted in Daniel chapter 2. We see one of the most powerful prophecies in all of scripture is captured in Daniel chapter 2. We see the king having a dream. I think we are all familiar with the king's dream. Yeah. He he he sees a statue made of various elements. A head of gold. Um then after the gold is what? Silver. Then there's bronze. then becomes iron. Then iron mixed with clay. Then suddenly a stone that is not cut off with the hands of a man crushes um this um this rock um the image this image at the feet and eventually this rock uh makes grinds it grinds the image to shaft which is blown away like the shaft of the winter threshing flows uh and then summer rather summer threshing flows and eventually the rock grows into a large mountain and as and and and eventually in Daniel 2:31-45 Daniel himself breaks it down to the king Nebuchadnezzar. He tells him uh that indeed the god of heaven has has viewed him uh as worthy and given him a a message that is pertaining the future. And he tells him that he is the king of kings and he's that head of gold. But after him would come another kingdom you know and eventually we are told uh from Babylon we move to what to Greece to Rome and eventually the breaking up of Rome to the various 10 tribes and ultimately the 10 tribes of Europe. And then in verses 43 we see an interesting uh aspect of prophecy in that it says that these these nations would would would try and do what the modern day nations of of of Europe would try and do what to adhere to one another. It says they will mingle with the seed of men but they will not adhere to one another just as iron does not mix with clay. And we given an example. The author wants to tell us how these European nations were were were fighting for the supremacy. You know, they were fighting for dominion over the region once Rome had had um had fragmented into the various tribes. And part of the means and ways to ensure and to foster power is that they try to do what? To intermar. They try to intermar kings and queens here. the French, the French princes, the the the the the British prince, etc., etc., and the Germans. And before World War I, it is interesting that the royal family in Britain was referred to as what? Sax Kobak Gotha, which in essence is a German name. And it it it was it was showing um their origin, that mingling, you know, that that that that cohesion, that trying to bring together. But ultimately we know in World War I the Germans were the ones who are the oppressors and Britain in trying to distance themselves from their German roots eventually um took upon themselves the name the House of Winds but before that they were actually known by it's actually very interesting that for a long time British the British kings were not actually originally British. They were from other nations. They were French, German, um, uh, from Austria. They were not British originally. Yes. And so we, we, what what Daniel 2 in essence teaches us and tells us is that indeed um, the prophecies go through history in an unbroken sequence of empires, starting in antiquity and ending in the future, even to our time. And this is what is referred to as a historicist approach to interpreting prophecy which is what the text in Daniel 2 and uh and most of uh Daniel and as well as aspects of revelation teach us the historicist approach to prophecy. In essence it tells us of the power of God as he manifests himself in the book of Isaiah. God himself says that he is we will know that he is the only true God. How if we are able to do what? to study the prophecies to study the Bible prophecies. I remember um many many challenges that God puts in the book of in the book of u Isaiah but one that comes to mind so fondly is the book of Isaiah 46 and verse9 and he says remember the former things of old for I am God and there is none else I am God and there is none like me he says in verse 10 declaring the end from the beginning and from ancient times the things that are not yet nine saying my counsel shall stand and I will do all my pleasure. God himself is even saying that the way he lays down prophecy is in a chronological historical order. He is able to tell us the end from the beginning. And so it simply tells us that indeed the historicist approach to prophecy is actually the correct way to study Bible prophecy and to see the hand of God throughout the future um as well as in the past and in the present. True. Let me let me just um um come to you. um what are some of the errors uh when when people try and um break away from the historicist approach? What are some of the errors that we see people making um in interpretation of Bible prophecy? Yes, thank you. Uh actually from what brother Rafael has um laid before us um people can try and move things around. So for instance, you can say that um the the kingdom of Christ is not a kingdom that is coming in the future but maybe was what Christ had established at his time. But from from that prophecy, that's not possible because Christ was living during what time? During the period of iron, the Roman Empire. Yeah. Not even iron mixed with clay. So clearly that could not have been the case as an example. Or um some say when they look at um a few lines of text in the book of Daniel, they say that there's a particular power that tried to persecute the Jews and tried to let's say desecrate their sanctuary by offering a pig anan animal in the sanctuary. Therefore, that is what Daniel thought was as the evil power and the power that were going to attack God's people. But again, that doesn't work because the Greeks, who are those people? It was Antiocus. He was one of the Greeks. He's living during which period? The period of the of the brass. M so clearly again like it's clear that um that very simple picture of gold, silver and so forth. It lays down a very simple structure that nullifies almost every other false interpretation in a very simple way in a way that God's people don't even have to have a deep understanding of history. They can have a sufficient one for them to understand what the Bible means when it talks about uh the true enemies and the true threats that God is trying to attack. And so we can be safe in a very a and in in this very wonderful and yet simple understanding of Bible prophecy. Amen. Amen. You know. Mhm. Yes. Go ahead. I find the historical um uh way of uh historicist way of looking at Bible prophecy is is is almost like a summary of all others. True. Because some would like to put the Bible prophecies haven't been fulfilled in the past. So the antich say it's it's in the future. you know the antichrist will come somebody somewhere from the Middle East you know will do something or Russia or something like that but you see in the historicist view uh we we see that it's not it's simply telling us that prophecy moves from when the prophet is alive and and and is telling his vision so it's both past present and future and it it's also symbolic it was got some aspects of prophecy are also what symbolic and so the historicist view sort of encaps en encap encapsulates all these views and puts them in the proper perspective too. It's very similar to what um when Christ is writing to John, he says, "Write those things which are what is present um which you have seen which are happening and which shall shortly happen which shall shortly come to pass." Amen. Um and now I want us to just go deeper into some of the um um stories that come out in the book of Daniel. after we've seen this image being set up, tell us about the image that is that Nebuchadnezzar now eventually sets up in Daniel chapter 3. Yes, thank you. So Nebuchadnezzar is the one who actually had the vision and only Nebuchadnezzar um had that true representation and apparently what he saw um when he saw uh the gold um image that was going to be followed by an inferior metal, silver and then brass and so on so forth, he apparently displeased him. So in the book of Daniel chapter 3 reading from verse one the Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold whose height was 60 cubits and the breadth was 6 cubits. So it's 60 high by six and six. Very interesting you know it's weird you find 666 all over the scripture in weird places. Um so uh he builds it and then he sets up this image on the plane of Dura on the in in the province of Babylon. And then we are told from verse two and verse three he says that everyone must come to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king had made. And then we are told in verse 4 and verse 5, the herald cries out uh to you it is commanded all people, nations and languages that at what time you hear the sound of all these instruments, the cornet etc etc that you will bow down, fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king has made. And those who would not worship immediately what will happen to them? They will be cast into the fire and they will be burnt at that same hour. and and and that tells us a few things. First of all, it tells us that Nebuchadnezzar saw that image and refused to accept that his kingdom would end. He said that him his kingdom is from head to toe. And then secondly, it is shall it shall be woripped. It is actually a divine um representation. It is not just any other thing that shall be swept away and cast into nothing because as Rafael described just a few minutes ago, that image in the dream in the prophecy, what happened? It was crushed into into powder like basically it it disappeared into nothingness. But in this case Nebuchadnezzar says no his kingdom the image shall last forever in effect that he's saying this is actually a divine object a divine entity that he he personally is establishing and he forms and calls everyone to actually worship this particular image. He's basically saying that my kingdom will never um fall and I will remain king forever defying the very voice of God. Yes, exactly. And interestingly, the way he was defying the voice is almost like you could say Lucifer sort of because in the in uh in the end we actually find that Nebuchadnezzar eventually he repents of um um of what he had done but Lucifer does not. But you can actually see sort of echoes of that you know uh uh one of the verses we like reading in the book of Isaiah chapter 14 uh verse 12 where it says how art thou fallen from heaven oh Lucifer son of the morning. If you actually read verse one, you find it's actually talking about the king of Babylon. So um of which now Lucifer is like a spirit a spiritual representation the same way that um there are prophecies of the king of Judah and it is clear that Jesus Christ is the one being described um in a spiritual in um in a higher application. So here you actually find that there's a sense in which even the spirit of Satan is present there. It tells us that this is actually one of the most dangerous and um uh uh yeah one of the most dangerous elements that element of pride that element of self-exaltation. Now within this context you actually find God's people contending because the three Hebrews Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego they are actually found caught there. you know they are among the the leadership who are actually meant to go and dedicate that I that that that Adidas image and they are asked will you bow down and worship this image and in verse 17 and verse 18 of Daniel chapter 3 we find them saying uh Shadrach Meshach and Abednego they say in verse 16 in fact it says we are not careful to answer thee on this matter we are not careful because they asked will you actually worship this image they say we are not careful what does that mean Rafa what does that like we are not careful. It simply means it's say it's a no-brainer. Yeah. Like we're not going to like argue, debate, pray somewhere. We're not even going to contemplate. It doesn't require further prayer or further study. This it is as clear as night and day. Yeah. It's just like 100% this is not even something we are thinking about. This is um we we made this decision long time ago. And and and what's the decision? If so be our God whom we serve is able to deliver us. Verse 17, out of the burning fiery furnace, he will deliver us out of your hand, O king. But if not, let it be known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. And and you know, it's not even that they try and soften that message. They tried and used, you know, euphemism. Um they tried and used like nice fancy language. you know these days we have technology that can allow us to really uh freshen up our language and and even like modify it you know like chach and like generative AI really has really um opened many horizons but uh uh for the three Hebrews they just laid it plainly and they said plainly 100% we are sorry we will not do this thing and the plainness of their statement and their in inability to change it angered angered Nebuchadnezzar at that time and and what happened he said that three times so sorry seven times that furnace was made hotter. I don't know how how exactly it like it was his language that he was using that to describe what he was going to do to make that furnace seven times hotter. And he cast those three Hebrews into the furnace. And guess what happened at the end? At the very end where he cast them in um verse 25, lo, I see four men loose and walking in the midst of the fire and they have no heart and the form of the fourth is like the son of God. So of the two things that the three Hebrews said that would happen, either number one, God will deliver them, or number two, even if God does not deliver them, they will still remain in the fire, they will accept this um uh this persecution and this this uh suffering on God's behalf. God actually came through for them and rescued them and saved them. We'll actually go through a few um stories um uh in a few minutes and we'll actually find that occasionally um God is glorified in martyrdom and other times God is glorified in how he protects his saints but in all things God is glorified. So in this particular lesson of worshiping the image and I'm sure um in the next um um session in the next uh day we'll actually go through the spiritual application at least in this literal application we actually find that there was a king who established an image an image requiring worship and there was even a death decree that was attached to that worship to rejecting that worship and God in the end came through for his people. Amen. Amen. Amen. I brother Rafael, let me just bring you in here and just talk to us about the the importance or the kind of faith we actually need to be able to go through such trials when we are when we are deep in trial and when we think that uh our our faith is being tested. What kind of faith do we need and what can we look to? Um how can we be encouraged? What are some of the promises we can look to? Um similarly to Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego I believe um Paul speaks about uh some of these things in the book of Romans chapter 8 and uh he asks the question um in verse 35 Romans chapter 8 and verse 35 Paul asks and says who shall separate us from the love of Christ you know what shall take the place of God in your life what is that thing that shall threaten you to the extent that it can be able to remove you from the hands of the divine one who loves us. And he asked the question, what shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall it be tribulation or distress or persecution or famine? As we saw last in the last uh in the last um in the last lesson uh when we looked at uh Ruth, you know what? And offer what is it? Could it be nakedness, you know, or peril or sword? As it is written, he Paul writes and says, "For thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that has loved us." Indeed, we conquer. And faith is the victory. We if we have faith in him and he who has loved, he is able to sustain us through these difficulties. In verse 38, he says, "For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come." There's nothing presently in your life, there's nothing presently in your future. That's an oxymoron. But uh whatever it is, both present and in the future, there's nothing that can be able to do to do what? To remove you from the hands of God, from that sure shepherd in an unsure world. It says it can be any it can be a height. It can be any depth. can't be any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Even sin itself and death is not able to separate us from the love of God if we have believed in him. And I think it it also it is also good to have the backstory of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. Where were they coming from? These were refugees. These were the the the the what you would what you would call uh like the trophies of war. Their nation had has been ravaged. The temple has been destroyed. Their nation has been has been has been has been destroyed completely. And now they are they taken captives and they in this foreign land. But through it all, they still remember the God of their father. Through it all, they they still believe in God's power to heal, to sustain, to rescue. Even if he allowed the nation to be destroyed, they say he's still faithful and they will still be faithful to him. Amen. Amen. And you know in the last days as we move on to the Tuesday part we see another image being set up. In the book of Revelation chapter 13 we are introduced to certain beasts. We are told of one beast that comes out of the sea. But from verse 11 we are told of an interesting beast that does not come out of the sea. You know all the other beasts in Bible prophecy. We see them coming out of seas and we see them coming out of places where winds are blowing and there's a lot of strife among people and among nations for them to rise up into supremacy. But this beast is very different. It comes out of the Bible says it is it comes out of the earth an unpopulated place. It means it comes out from a different location than all the other beasts that were arising. And you know, we know in Bible prophecy that a beast represents a kingdom. And kingdoms and nations only appear in Bible prophecy or are presented in the word of God as only as they come into contact with the church of God. And therefore, this beast as it is being represented, this nation as it's being as it is rising up, God brings it up because of its significance in the last days as it it interacts with the church of God. We are told that this beast exercisth all the power of the first beast before him, and it caus them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed. We can see a nation that is rising up in the last days. And it is causing uh um the people of this world not to worship the only true God, the creator of the heaven and the earth, but it is causing the worship to be directed to a particular beast, to the first beast that rose out of the sea. In verse 13, we are told, "He doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven, on the earth, and in the sight of men, and deceiveth them that dwell on the earth, by the means of those miracles, which he had power to do in the sight of the beast, saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast." The same way an image was formed in Daniel chapter 2, a similar image is formed in the book of Revelation chapter 13. Reminding you that all these things were written for our ensemble. So for so those whom the end of the world are come. The Bible says, "And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak and cause as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed." The same way Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, there was a death decree that went out that anyone who does not bow to this image, they will be killed. Similarly in the last days we are told that a similar image that will be formed and this image again the issue will be still under the same thing worship. Will we worship the commandments of men? This image will I mean this beast will rise up and it will speak giving the commandments of men. Will we worship the commandments of men or will we worship the commandments of God? The same issues that came up in the book of Daniel chapter 3 will come up in the last days. And what is this first beast? What is this first beast that rises up out of the earth? Firstly, we have established that this beast cannot be rising up like the other beasts in places that are populated. And we know that the other beasts being Rome, Greece, um um Babylon, they were all they were all set up in one particular part of the earth. But we know this beast comes up I mean one particular side of the world but we know this beast does not come up from that particular side of the world. Why? We do know that this particular beast comes out from an unpopulated area which is as we know one of the last nations that rose up that rose up later on from an from an unpopulated place and which happens to be the American the United States of America. The lamblike beast that rose up having two horns, having two horns, speaking, you know, marvelously. The beast that establishes freedom, liberties, you know, they say it is the land of the free. Liberties, liberties that where we say people have the ability to worship as they would have, they have the rights of conscience. Those rights were protected by the state. This beast rose up speaking indeed like a lamb. It looked so innocent. It looked like it was the place where Christians could flee and find help. But we are told as it develops, it starts speaking like the dragon. It starts exercising the power of the first beast. And we are told it establishes an image to the beast. It it it it it and and and and let me actually just pause here and say one thing. You know, when it comes to the persecution of the people of God, you will never find um any political state rising up and just because they feel like it persecuting the children of God for no reason. People are persecuted because of the laws that distinguish them. They are persecuted because of their worship. They are persecuted because they threaten another religion. So a a nation cannot just rise up and persecute a particular people if there's no religion that is being threatened. So for this nation to rise up and starts persecuting the people of God, there must be a religion that is set up in that state that is being threatened. And so the union of this religion and the state will cause the true worshippers of God to be persecuted. And that is what we expect in these last days. And you know as I was reading this lesson you know we were thinking of and sometimes we think of this and say these things are they are going to come far into the future. They sound absurd when we actually speak nowadays and say you know this the law of God is going to come into question. It sounds absurd when we talk about um uh Sunday worship and we say those who will not worship on Sunday will be persecuted. But friends, if you have been looking at the news, if you have been uh observing what is happening daytoday, you will see that there's a Sunday law movement that is gaining ground in the United States of America. People are standing up and making legislations and saying that now we want to start up to start a state where people will all come and worship on Sunday. And if you do not worship on Sunday, we want to make sure that this nation is a religious nation. We want to restore religion in this state. And it sounded absurd maybe five years ago, 10 years ago, but today people are rising up and they are saying we want America to be a religious nation again. And they are busy urging for laws that would restore Sunday sacredness as the true and formal day of worship in the United States of America. They are preparing for that day when we say indeed those who do not worship on Sunday will be persecuted. It sounded absurd. It is no longer absurd. The children of God need to prepare today need to be ready for these persecuting powers indeed are slowly forming an image to the beast. I know I have said much. I will just pause right there to allow my my husband to also add a comment to this. Yeah, it's actually very interesting um the um harapid that has actually been fulfilled that we have seen a lot of the degeneracy and a lot of um the corruption of ethics um especially in America that has called for this very many people who are Christians who do actually um uh it's difficult for me to even doubt their their faith or at least the sincerity of their faith. It appears that they they actually do feel that what they're doing is of the Lord. That they feel it is of the Lord for them to take back the reigns of government from the secular arm and reestablish religion. And that's actually what you find there of an image, a replica of the beast. The beast we saw was the people system, that mixture of Christianity and the powers of of um of Europe at that time. So for instance um the the the the popup of Rome was the one who would place the crown on the the emperor for instance and the emperor was was actually in charge of largely um the election of the pope as an example that kind of very very tight union of those two systems that system was destroyed and it was killed in 1798 we actually are seeing slow slowly that image that replica it's almost like a mirror image of that system beginning to be formed in America even today is very very troubling and and it should not be something that is fearful. In fact, in the very beginning um on the Sunday part um it was important where they're saying we should ultimately view all these events with hope and not with fear. Not because we aren't to be scared but just to understand that the these final events which are rapid are rapidly being fulfilled before our very eyes. Amen. Amen. Brother Raphael, um, just talk to us about God's wrath being made manifest or God's wrath being revealed in these last days or it shall be revealed against those who practice wickedness because they choose to follow human tradition rather than the laws of God. Indeed, um, the Bible is very clear about um, about some of these things as they have been captured um, in black and white. And if we simply students of the Bible, then we know for a fact that beyond a particular point, God has to intervene. Beyond a particular point, God steps into the picture. And therefore, we are driven to uh the book of Revelation 18. Revelation chapter 18, we find God himself now speaking from heaven, you know, with a loud voice. We've seen the the context of the of the um of the uh of the three angels messages. It's a it's not a it's not a it's not a new it's not a new it's not a new concept. It's not a new a new truth. But beyond it all, we're told there was another voice from heaven. You know uh uh revelation allow me to read uh revelation chapter 18 verse 1-5. Okay. Uh it says after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven having great power and the earth was lighted with his glory. It's a powerful angel and he's the light the earth it says it's lighted with his glory and he cries mightily with a strong voice saying what Babylon the great is fallen is fallen and it has become the habitation of what of devils and the hold of every foul spirit and a cage for every unclean and hateful bad. the things that are happening in this system, the things that are happening in this world under this system are are are so nauseating to God and to the extent that he calls it not only um uh the hold of every foul spirit but also a cage for every unclean and headful and um hateful bad. It's like a it's like a conglomeration of all of all that God does not like of all that the things that God um that God dislikes and despises. And verse three says, "For all the nations have drank of the wine of the wrath over fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are works rich through the abundance of a delicacies. People are benefiting from these systems, you know, the people who are comfortable, the people who are doing well, appearing in lists of of rich and wealthy people and and um and enjoying high society life. But all this um the fourth um verse four tells us John the scene changes and it says I heard another voice from heaven saying come out of her my people that he be not partakers of her sins and that he receive not of her what of her plagues. Why? For her sins have reached unto heaven and God hath remembered her iniquities. God keeps an accurate record of the things that happened down here. We may be enjoying the best of society. We may be enjoying um the the the the wonderful things that Babylon and and its systems provide for us, but the Bible records eventually the door of mercy will will shut. Eventually the cup of probation uh will be full and probation will close and the Bible records and says her sins will reach into heaven and God will remember her iniquities. If you allow me to read verse six, it says, "Reward her even as she rewarded you. Double unto her, double according to her works in the cup which she had filled. Fill to her double." The extent to which the people of God are disturbed by the by the by the children of darkness, God says he will double it to them. What what a chilling revelation. Something that ought to we ought to think about. Imagine God says what men have done you know all these wars all these uh take people taking advantage of each other people suffering all this God says he'll come he'll he'll he he'll double if you have done this you'll receive double out of it all because of disobedience but the wonderful truth is that the wonderful um message for all of us is that God still sees his people in in in Babylon and his message to us today is come out of her my people. Amen. You know, the Bible says that the the the dragon was wroth with the woman because she kept the commandments of God. And secondly, she had the faith of Jesus. Beloved, if there was a time today, we we would ask God for that kind of faith that will take us through that time, it is now. If there was a time for us to be more steadfast with the keeping of the commandments of God, the time is now. The issues at the end will be on those two points. Do we keep the commandments of God or the commandments of men? And do we indeed pursue the faith of Christ? That Christ indeed will give us victory over every besetting sin. That is the faith we are asked to have. That Christ indeed will be able to take us through every calamity, every trial, every temptation and will come out at the end victorious. Do you have that kind of faith? The Lord is able to give you that kind of faith. He says, "Come to me, buy of me gold that has been tried in the fire." That gold, it is his faith. Now, there is also another story found in the New Testament that I would want us to explore. God has given us enough from scripture to encourage us that indeed the days ahead, he knows about them and he wants us to be ready for them, but he wants us to he wants us to be reminded that he will go through those trying moments with us. tell us about the story of Peter and the what Peter went through. Indeed, the Bible records the story of Peter in the book of Acts uh chapter 12 and it begins in verse one. I'd like us to consider um verses uh just a few verses and then I'll summarize the story because we're supposed to read consider the whole story from Acts 12:1-17. Um verse one says, "Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hand to ve certain of the church. The king we see a pagan power persecuting what the church you see the state is now acting uh is doing what is hurting the church the the state is persecuting the church and then what what does he do he's the Bible records he stretch forth he's stretching forth his hand to vex certain of the church it tells us it's not all of everybody in the church but certain a certain group and as you said this group was known how they had the testimony of Christ and the spirit of prophecy. These were the Christians. These are those the early church that Christ had what had left and established on earth. And it is these that that Herod the king decided to do what? To touch and to vex and to punish. Uh giving us uh glimpses of what Revelation 13 as you rightfully took us through uh is fortelling of the future of the of of this same church as it has gone on through the generations. Verse two gives us one important bit and it tells us and he killed who? James the brother of John with the sword. We see political power once again uh emphasized and and and typified as a sword. The king killing uh a Christian a follower of of Christ well nigh a disciple by the name of James. And then in verse three what is the reaction of the of the of of the of the people to this to this to this atrocity to this murder to this persecution? Verse three says, "And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also, and these were the days of what?" "And live bread." Almost the days of what? Almost the Passover. Almost just after the Passover, almost like the time of Christ once again when Christ dies as that Passover lamb. We see uh Peter now has also been caught. And as when they apprehended him, the Bible continues and tells us that he put him he he he arrested him and put him in in prison as if he was the most wanted criminal in all of Israel under tight security and in a very well fortified area. But the Bible also tells us that as Peter had been arrested and as the church was under persecution, the church gathered together and it shows us the power of when the church gathers together and the church prayed. prays the church. The church prays and the Bible records that an angel was sent and the angel comes to Peter and finds Peter sound asleep or for a faith such as the faith of Peter. Amen. That he's facing eminent death. His friend and and and fellow fisherman in the past has been killed by the name of James and he's now he probably feels that he's next. Imagine your last what could be quote unquote your last night on earth. What would you be doing? Definitely not sleeping. Yeah, maybe you'll be writing letters, you know, telling people, oh, you know, I buried some gold somewhere. I have a title did somewhere. Please give to so and so. But Peter says the things of this earth he has left and he's sleeping soundly. He's sleeping so soundly that the Bible records that the angel had to wake him up to sort of nudge him, you know, like it wasn't easy to wake him up. The Bible records, I think it is in the book of Isaiah 26 and:3, that will keep him in perfect whose mind is stayed upon thee because he trusted in thee. God is able to sustain us through difficulty. God is able to sustain us even in the very as as David would say in Psalms 23, though I walk through the very the valley of the shadow of death. Peter was in this valley and indeed the shadow of death was looming large and looming dark. But nonetheless, God was able to give him peace. Amen. Eventually, the angel wakes him up and he leads Peter and Peter thinks things think Peter to a certain extent thinks he's in a dream until eventually he's led out of the of the prison. this high maximum security situation and he walks through all those levels of security and he gets angelic clearance and eventually he goes uh to the church where the church is praying and when he's knocking uh a woman comes and opens and then runs away thinking it's a ghost you know and thinking it's a it's something strange but eventually they come and they realize indeed it is Peter whom they are praying for who is outside the gate also almost almost a rebuke to sometimes the way we pray and we limit God. You know, sometimes you're praying for something, but you're telling God, I know uh the way the world says, you know, aim for the stars, you may land on the moon. Sometimes our prayers are like that. You know, you say, "Okay, God, this is what I want." But also, if you give me this, I'm okay. And then sometimes in the process of God answering uh your prayer, sometimes for you to go to the stars, you may you must first of all pass through the moon. And sometimes we may so in the moon and we may get comfortable not and we forget that God wants to take us where to take us higher. And so the disciples uh were praying um the Christians were praying and then they were shocked that God answers this prayer and eventually Peter was was saved at that particular occasion. But later on we are told as Christ had predicted in John 21 18 and 19 that a time would come that he would be led in his old age to a place where he wouldn't he wouldn't know where I was. Fox's book of matters writes um um and says that Peter was crucified but because he felt himself not worthy to be crucified like Christ he has to be crucified what upside down he gave his life eventually persecution did catch up with him but ultimately through it all God was simply demonstrating that if it is for his honor and for his glory and in response to the prayers of the church he is able to intervene in any in each and every situation in our lives whether persecution is present whether whether through persecution through perscute ution and dying or through persecution and salvation. Nonetheless, through each the name of God is blessed and glorified. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. And you know, we touched on this uh uh the last week that during the time of trouble, Jacob's time of trouble, there is no Christian who is going to die. The trouble will be all around us, but no one will die during that time. Even when the death decree goes out in the book of revelation chapter 13 there is no Christian who is going to die during the little time of trouble before close of human probation. Some will die some will be mired but at the time of trouble God will preserve all his children. Quite an encouragement that it is a time of trouble so great that none has imagined it. Yet there is no saint just the same way they entered in the fiery furnace came out preserved. We will go into that furnace and we will come out untouched and we will come out unscathed. Talk to us about the true issue in the last days. What will be what will be the main issue of controversy in the last days? Amen. So explicitly um actually it's what you were talking about when you went through the Tuesday lesson. It is the conflict between the seal of God and the mark of the beast. But within that conflict, you actually find what the true issue is. In the book of Revelation 12:1 17, we actually find um uh the the the devil. We are told the dragon was wroth with the woman and went to make war with the rest of her offspring, the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God and have the testimony of Jesus said. So on one side, we have obedience to God and his commandments. And on the other side you have the principles, the laws and the systems of the beast, the antichrist power and and and and specific and at the core of that is actually the issue of the Sabbath. We know that the seal of God, Revelation chapter 7, will be placed upon the forehead of God's people. Now the seal in the book of Revelation is just called the father's name. In Revelation 14, we are told the 144,000 who have the seal elsewhere, we are told they have the father's name in their forehead. But then in the old and the new testament elsewhere we are told two things that it is the father's name on the forehead is written by who? By the holy spirit. That is why in the book of Ephesians we are told the holy spirit seals you. Yeah. Ephesians chapter 4 I mean Ephesians chapter 1 we are told that the holy spirit seals god's people. But the holy spirit seals what? He seals the law in the foreheads in the minds of god's people. But and and in the book of Isaiah 8:16, we are told what seal the law among my disciples. But specifically, you know, we um again in the revelation, we are told that the seal is the father's name. Specifically, we are told that specifically that 144,000 have the father's name in their forehead. So specifically, what does the holy spirit seal in the foreheads of God's people? In the book of Exodus chapter 31 and the book of Ezekiel chapter 20:12, we are told that the specific seal of God within the ten commandments is what? The seventh day Sabbath. This that the Sabbath was a seal, a representation, a demarcation of who are God's people and those who are not God's people. And then on the other hand, the what is the mark of the beast? You see uh you you took us through that study briefly that the beast power is none other than the papacy and the mark is what the beast power claims as its mark of authority which is none other than Sunday sacredness and it has done so consistently. Um in fact I was quite surprised there was even recently there is um an encyclical that was called DS Dominique. I'm not sure if it was recently by John Paul II or by the pope that followed him, um, Benedict or or or Francis, but it's a a very recent document that actually highlights specifically the position of Sunday and that every Christian must make it their mission to to to bring that legislation into effect to make Sunday um uh legally binding in the nation and the state that they are living. I was actually surprised to read that document. I was um it was quite a shocker that the mark of the beast is clearly defined by the beast power itself and the seal of God is clearly defined by God himself. And so we can find that the controversy of the last day is actually going to be be about obedience to God but about that law that is being in um h in in conflict and in controversy. Now in the book of Matthew chapter 15 we find something interesting that Christ says. Matthew chapter 15 um reading uh verse 9. Matthew 15 verse 9 we are told uh Christ speaking and he's speaking about um uh uh the the Pharisees are insisting how come God's Jesus disciples are not engaged in the rituals and the like of the Pharisees and then Christ says what in vain do they worship me teaching for doctrines the commandments of men that that that people are in vain trying to worship God and I told you that those who are trying to bring in Sunday sacredness I'm they're not doing so because they are Satanists or whatever. They're doing so because they actually believe that is the worship of God. But Christ himself is saying it is in vain if you try and substitute um God's commandments uh sorry commandments of men for the commandments of God. And in this particular case throughout the life of Christ the Sabbath itself was a key and crucial unfortunate fighting ground. Um, in the book of Mark 2 from verse 21-28, as the disciples were walking across the field, they were just picking some corn and they were rak accused of doing what? Of harvesting and of threshing. And in fact, the language in the book of Luke is that they accused of plucking it, harvesting, and accused of threshing. That's ridiculous. But that is the language that was established by the Pharisees because they created laws around the Sabbath. They manufactured their own doctrines and they attached them to the Sabbath and they made the Sabbath which otherwise was a wonderful blessing. They made it a difficult and a burden yeah a great burden for God's people. And again in the book of Matthew 12:9 to verse 14 and John 5:1-6 Christ actually engages in a work of healing on the Sabbath day. Again this there's no command against healing um and doing good on the Sabbath day. In fact, in the book of Isaiah chapter 58, which is um a day that really brings forward the blessing of the Sabbath, it's all about calling calling the making the Sabbath a a delight and not doing your own pleasure like your own work and you know career activities on God's hols. But with regard to alleviating suffering, that's a wonderful thing to do on God's holy Sabbath day. But because of the doctrine, the the commandments of men that were established upon the Sabbath, the Sabbath was made grievous. And in the last days, we shall find a similar conflict. In the book of um Matthew 12:14, we actually do find Matthew 12:14. Let me just read that for us here. After Christ has done the work of healing, then the Pharisees went out and held a council against him how they might destroy him. Why? because of the work of healing that he did on the Sabbath day. Similarly, there shall be a controversy about the commandments of God and the commandments of men with regard to and and the Sabbath shall be at the center because the issue of the seal of God and the mark of the beast will have increasing urgency um as we near and near near the very final moments of this earth's history. So it again it's not for us to to be fearful but for us to have hope and for us to be encouraged in seeing all these things transpired before us. God calls upon us to stand more firmly upon simple obedience of his laws and obedience that is actuated by the work of the Holy Spirit. I repeated um uh uh I would like to repeat what I said about that issue of the seed of God. The seed of God is the Holy Spirit writing the law within the minds of God's people. And God's people therefore um uh must pray earnestly and constantly for the Holy Spirit to perform this work of sealing upon the church. Amen. Amen. And um rightly so fits very well within the new covenant promise that he himself will write his laws upon our own hearts. He will do the writing himself. You know the Bible says in the book of John 14:15 that if you love me you will keep my commandments. And there are many people rising up today and asking themselves should we really is the Sabbath really such a big deal? I mean is it such a big deal? Even seven day Adventists are starting to question is this is Sabbath truly the seal of God or is Sunday sacredness truly the mark of the beast? Well the it will boil down to one thing. Will you follow tradition, what the whole world has been doing for many years, or will you follow the explicit law of God that has already been revealed? Will you accept the Bible as the true voice of God in your life and choose to follow it or will you follow the traditions of men, the tradition of the Catholic Church to keep Sunday, the tradition of the whole world to keep Sunday or will you follow the law of God? That is the question we will ask at the very end. And that is the image that will be formed to the beast. And that is what we will be asked. Bow to it or be killed. What will you follow? I think with that I want to ask uh my brother to pray with us and then we will close today. Amen. Let's believe and pray. Our kind loving father and master who art in heaven, we humbly come before you this blessed day. We're thankful Lord for enabling us to see those things that have happened in the past that we through the patience of the scriptures dear Lord as we study them we see these precursors and we can have hope dear Lord it may be that some of us are already undergoing persecution. It may be the persecution awaits us in the past, in the in in the present rather, in the future and whatever time. Dear Lord, I pray that in it all, may we be found steadfast in your love, dear Lord. Indeed, nothing can separate us from you. We believe, oh Lord, help our unbelief. Guide us and lead us firmly until that day that shall break and dawn and never set again, even that day when you shall come again our sec our a second time. is our most humble prayer believing and trusting in you. Amen. Amen. Amen. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[7.8s] Good morning and happy Sabbath. Thank
[10.2s] you so much for joining us today at New
[12.4s] Life 7th Day Adventist Church, 5th Gong
[14.8s] Avenue at our weekly Sabbath school
[17.3s] lesson study today. We are glad you're
[20.1s] here this Sabbath and we are praying
[21.5s] that the Lord will speak to us even as
[23.5s] we study together. I am joined by two
[26.7s] panelists to help us study this lesson
[29.1s] that we have been going through of
[31.4s] illusions, symbols and images as God
[34.9s] uses them in Bible prophecy to help us
[37.6s] to understand certain prophetic messages
[40.8s] revealed for those who will be living in
[43.4s] these last days. Very key messages, but
[46.5s] God wrapped them in in symbols made for
[49.9s] us to be able to understand and to be
[52.1s] able to relate to. that this week we
[54.7s] will be studying precursors. And I'm
[57.6s] excited about this because it shows that
[60.1s] God forsaw what his children would go
[63.0s] through in the last days and made sure
[66.2s] that there are enough stories, enough
[68.5s] images and samples even in history that
[71.8s] would help us to prepare for those days.
[74.2s] I want our two panelists to introduce
[76.6s] themselves. We will pray and then we
[78.8s] will start start this discussion
[81.0s] together. We will start with you my
[82.9s] husband. Uh thank you. My name is
[85.0s] Jafetrono. Thank you for joining us
[87.4s] today. My name is Enongo Rafa. So it's a
[90.2s] pleasure to be here. Thank you for
[91.7s] brother Rafael for joining us today. Um
[94.5s] kindly pray with us even as we start
[96.5s] today. Great. Thank you. Let's pray.
[99.1s] Heavenly Father, we are so thankful for
[100.9s] the opportunity to do to part
[102.7s] participate in this uh discussion on
[104.9s] precursors as we're going through the
[107.2s] lessons found in the book of Daniel and
[108.9s] in the lessons of the disciples and
[111.2s] their experiences um expressing their
[113.9s] faith in the New Testament. May your
[115.7s] Holy Spirit give us insight and
[117.3s] understanding. May Jesus Christ be
[119.2s] glorified in Jesus name I pray. Amen.
[121.3s] Amen. Amen. Amen. Our key text today
[124.8s] comes from the book of 2 Timothy
[128.0s] 1:7. Brother Raphael, would you kindly
[130.7s] read that for us? 2 Timothy chapter 1
[133.6s] and verse 7. Reading from the New King
[135.4s] James Version of the Bible, he records
[137.4s] and says, "For God has not given us a
[140.3s] spirit of fear, but of power and of love
[144.0s] and of a sound mind." And you know,
[146.6s] we've been discussing about the kingdoms
[149.2s] of this world and how they have been set
[151.8s] up. And we talked about how in the last
[154.6s] days, God is going to bring a
[156.7s] destruction of these kingdoms. But
[158.9s] before the destruction of these kingdoms
[160.9s] happen, we are going to see a
[162.9s] persecution of God's people. The church
[165.7s] of God will go through troubles times. A
[168.7s] time of trouble such has never been seen
[171.4s] in this world or has ever been thought
[173.9s] of or imagined will be seen in our
[177.0s] world. Yet God gives assurance to his
[179.8s] children. He tells them, "Let not your
[182.2s] heart be troubled." And he assures us
[184.7s] that we should not have a spirit of
[186.7s] fear. You know, the Bible says in the
[188.6s] book of um Isaiah that when you pass
[191.5s] through the waters, when you pass
[193.1s] through the fire, I will be with you.
[195.8s] The waters will not overwhelm you. The
[197.8s] fire will not burn you. It will not
[199.5s] consume you. I will be with you. And
[201.9s] this is the assurance even in these
[204.2s] precursors. God wants us to give what
[206.6s] God wants to give us the same assurance
[209.2s] that what went um what the children of
[211.8s] Israel went through in the past the same
[214.0s] way they overcame it is in the same way
[216.4s] we are going to overcome even in these
[218.7s] last days when we stand faith for that
[221.2s] which we have believed two very amazing
[224.3s] stories that we look at today but before
[226.8s] we go into those stories I want us to
[229.3s] just look at how we interpret um Bible
[233.0s] prophecy especially as we look back into
[236.2s] some historical um um um depictions of
[239.6s] prophecy. How do we interpret it? You
[241.8s] know, some people say the antichrist
[243.5s] will come in the future. The antichrist
[245.7s] already came in the past. But how do we
[248.3s] when we look at Bible prophecy as
[250.6s] seventh day Adventist and indeed how we
[253.1s] should interpret it? Um what biblical
[255.7s] approach we should take? What what
[258.2s] method did Christ use to interpret
[261.1s] prophecy? And I want you to um start for
[263.8s] us uh brother Raphael by taking us to
[266.4s] Daniel chapter 2 and just talking to us
[269.0s] about our historic our our approach to
[272.2s] Bible prophecy. Indeed. Um uh the lesson
[275.4s] today is uh aptly uh uh named precastle
[281.0s] almost echoing what uh we we read prior
[283.6s] in prior lessons in 1 Corinthians
[285.7s] chapter 10 11 telling us now all these
[288.2s] things happened unto them for examples
[290.4s] and they were written for admonition
[292.3s] upon whom the ends of the world are come
[295.4s] and then he continues also I think you
[297.8s] you you made a reference to Romans 15
[299.6s] and verse4 uh where we are once again
[302.7s] encouraged Whatever things were written
[305.2s] before were written for our learning
[307.8s] that we through the patience and the
[309.8s] comfort of the scriptures might have
[312.1s] hope. And so it is with this in mind
[314.2s] that we approach the book of Daniel. It
[317.0s] is this in mind that we approach the
[318.4s] book of Daniel a prophetic book and it
[321.0s] has got a lot of messages and it's a
[323.1s] book uh that many have stumbled in terms
[325.8s] of interpreting it. But the most proper
[329.2s] way of interpreting the text is to
[331.1s] interrogate the text. And the beautiful
[333.1s] thing with the book of Daniel is that it
[334.6s] explains itself. We have um
[337.1s] Nebuchadnezzar, a king, a Babylonian
[339.4s] king who has a dream and uh his first
[341.7s] vision uh in the night. This dream is
[344.5s] recorded in Daniel chapter 2. Later on
[346.8s] Daniel himself is given dreams now by
[348.8s] God in Daniel chapter 7 as well as in
[350.9s] Daniel chapter 8. And all these um uh
[354.3s] connect in one long line of truth that
[357.2s] God gradually breaks down for us. And
[359.9s] therefore when we are approaching Daniel
[362.3s] chapter 2, it is an object lesson to the
[365.0s] historicist approach to prophecy. The
[368.4s] historicist approach to prophecy simply
[370.0s] says that the prophet uh a prophecy that
[373.4s] um a prophet has begins during their
[376.0s] time and runs all the way until the end
[378.8s] of the world. It is a very chronological
[380.8s] and literal um uh breakdown of time. And
[384.5s] this is quite accurate uh quite
[387.4s] accurately depicted in Daniel chapter 2.
[389.8s] We see one of the most powerful
[391.9s] prophecies in all of scripture is
[394.2s] captured in Daniel chapter 2. We see the
[396.3s] king having a dream. I think we are all
[398.7s] familiar with the king's dream. Yeah. He
[401.0s] he he sees a statue made of various
[403.8s] elements. A head of gold. Um then after
[406.3s] the gold is what? Silver. Then there's
[408.3s] bronze. then becomes iron. Then iron
[410.4s] mixed with clay. Then suddenly a stone
[412.3s] that is not cut off with the hands of a
[414.6s] man crushes um this um this rock um the
[419.3s] image this image at the feet and
[421.0s] eventually this rock uh makes grinds it
[424.2s] grinds the image to shaft which is blown
[426.3s] away like the shaft of the winter
[427.9s] threshing flows uh and then summer
[429.9s] rather summer threshing flows and
[431.4s] eventually the rock grows into a large
[434.1s] mountain and as and and and eventually
[436.3s] in Daniel 2:31-45
[439.5s] Daniel himself breaks it down to the
[441.8s] king Nebuchadnezzar. He tells him uh
[444.9s] that indeed the god of heaven has has
[447.7s] viewed him uh as worthy and given him a
[450.3s] a message that is pertaining the future.
[452.1s] And he tells him that he is the king of
[453.8s] kings and he's that head of gold. But
[455.4s] after him would come another kingdom you
[457.8s] know and eventually we are told uh from
[460.6s] Babylon we move to what
[463.2s] to Greece to Rome and eventually the
[465.4s] breaking up of Rome to the various 10
[467.0s] tribes and ultimately the 10 tribes of
[469.5s] Europe. And then in verses 43 we see an
[473.5s] interesting uh aspect of prophecy in
[475.9s] that it says that these these nations
[478.4s] would would would try and do what the
[480.6s] modern day nations of of of Europe would
[483.6s] try and do what to adhere to one
[485.2s] another. It says they will mingle with
[487.6s] the seed of men but they will not adhere
[489.7s] to one another just as iron does not mix
[492.1s] with clay. And we given an example. The
[495.0s] author wants to tell us how these
[497.4s] European nations were were were fighting
[500.6s] for the supremacy. You know, they were
[502.5s] fighting for dominion over the region
[504.6s] once Rome had had um had fragmented into
[507.4s] the various tribes. And part of the
[509.4s] means and ways to ensure and to foster
[511.8s] power is that they try to do what? To
[513.9s] intermar. They try to intermar kings and
[516.2s] queens here. the French, the French
[518.6s] princes, the the the the the British
[522.2s] prince, etc., etc., and the Germans. And
[525.3s] before World War I, it is interesting
[527.6s] that the royal family in Britain was
[529.6s] referred to as what? Sax Kobak Gotha,
[532.6s] which in essence is a German name. And
[535.4s] it it it was it was showing um their
[538.5s] origin, that mingling, you know, that
[540.8s] that that that cohesion, that trying to
[543.1s] bring together. But ultimately we know
[545.0s] in World War I the Germans were the ones
[547.5s] who are the oppressors and Britain in
[550.9s] trying to distance themselves from their
[552.5s] German roots eventually um took upon
[555.0s] themselves the name the House of Winds
[557.3s] but before that they were actually known
[559.1s] by it's actually very interesting that
[560.8s] for a long time British the British
[563.1s] kings were not actually originally
[565.0s] British. They were from other nations.
[568.3s] They were French, German, um, uh, from
[571.9s] Austria. They were not British
[573.8s] originally. Yes. And so we, we, what
[576.8s] what Daniel 2 in essence teaches us and
[579.4s] tells us is that indeed um, the
[583.0s] prophecies go through history in an
[585.0s] unbroken sequence of empires, starting
[587.5s] in antiquity and ending in the future,
[589.9s] even to our time. And this is what is
[592.6s] referred to as a historicist approach to
[594.6s] interpreting prophecy which is what the
[596.6s] text in Daniel 2 and uh and most of uh
[601.0s] Daniel and as well as aspects of
[602.8s] revelation teach us the historicist
[605.0s] approach to prophecy. In essence it
[606.6s] tells us of the power of God as he
[609.4s] manifests himself in the book of Isaiah.
[611.4s] God himself says that he is we will know
[614.0s] that he is the only true God. How if we
[618.2s] are able to do what? to study the
[620.2s] prophecies to study the Bible
[621.9s] prophecies. I remember um many many
[625.1s] challenges that God puts in the book of
[626.9s] in the book of u Isaiah but one that
[629.2s] comes to mind so fondly is the book of
[631.0s] Isaiah 46 and verse9 and he says
[633.7s] remember the former things of old for I
[635.8s] am God and there is none else I am God
[638.2s] and there is none like me he says in
[640.0s] verse 10 declaring the end from the
[643.0s] beginning and from ancient times the
[644.9s] things that are not yet nine saying my
[646.9s] counsel shall stand and I will do all my
[649.8s] pleasure. God himself is even saying
[651.3s] that the way he lays down prophecy is in
[653.7s] a chronological historical order. He is
[656.6s] able to tell us the end from the
[658.6s] beginning. And so it simply tells us
[661.2s] that indeed the historicist approach to
[663.7s] prophecy is actually the correct way to
[666.7s] study Bible prophecy and to see the hand
[669.0s] of God throughout the future um as well
[672.1s] as in the past and in the present. True.
[674.2s] Let me let me just um um come to you. um
[677.2s] what are some of the errors uh when when
[680.0s] people try and um break away from the
[682.8s] historicist approach? What are some of
[684.3s] the errors that we see people making um
[686.7s] in interpretation of Bible prophecy?
[689.0s] Yes, thank you. Uh actually from what
[691.7s] brother Rafael has um laid before us um
[694.9s] people can try and move things around.
[696.7s] So for instance, you can say that um the
[699.5s] the kingdom of Christ is not a kingdom
[701.4s] that is coming in the future but maybe
[703.3s] was what Christ had established at his
[705.0s] time. But from from that prophecy,
[706.9s] that's not possible because Christ was
[708.6s] living during what time? During the
[710.6s] period of iron, the Roman Empire. Yeah.
[712.6s] Not even iron mixed with clay. So
[714.5s] clearly that could not have been the
[715.9s] case as an example. Or um some say when
[719.3s] they look at um a few lines of text in
[721.8s] the book of Daniel, they say that
[723.4s] there's a particular power that tried to
[725.6s] persecute the Jews and tried to let's
[727.8s] say desecrate their sanctuary by
[729.6s] offering a pig anan animal in the
[731.8s] sanctuary. Therefore, that is what
[734.0s] Daniel thought was as the evil power and
[736.6s] the power that were going to attack
[737.8s] God's people. But again, that doesn't
[739.7s] work because the Greeks, who are those
[742.2s] people? It was Antiocus. He was one of
[744.2s] the Greeks. He's living during which
[746.1s] period? The period of the of the brass.
[748.8s] M so clearly again like it's clear that
[751.6s] um that very simple picture of gold,
[754.1s] silver and so forth. It lays down a very
[756.4s] simple structure that nullifies almost
[759.3s] every other false interpretation in a
[761.2s] very simple way in a way that God's
[763.2s] people don't even have to have a deep
[765.4s] understanding of history. They can have
[766.6s] a sufficient one for them to understand
[768.4s] what the Bible means when it talks about
[770.5s] uh the true enemies and the true threats
[772.5s] that God is trying to attack. And so we
[774.7s] can be safe in a very a and in in this
[778.1s] very wonderful and yet simple
[779.5s] understanding of Bible prophecy. Amen.
[782.2s] Amen. You know. Mhm. Yes. Go ahead. I
[784.8s] find the historical um uh way of uh
[788.6s] historicist way of looking at Bible
[790.3s] prophecy is is is almost like a summary
[793.0s] of all others. True. Because some would
[795.0s] like to put the Bible prophecies haven't
[797.0s] been fulfilled in the past. So the
[798.5s] antich
[801.0s] say it's it's in the future. you know
[803.2s] the antichrist will come somebody
[804.8s] somewhere from the Middle East you know
[806.6s] will do something or Russia or something
[809.0s] like that but you see in the historicist
[811.5s] view uh we we see that it's not it's
[814.8s] simply telling us that prophecy moves
[816.5s] from when the prophet is alive and and
[818.0s] and is telling his vision so it's both
[820.2s] past present and future and it it's also
[823.4s] symbolic it was got some aspects of
[825.1s] prophecy are also what symbolic and so
[827.5s] the historicist view sort of encaps en
[829.6s] encap encapsulates all these views and
[832.0s] puts them in the proper perspective too.
[834.2s] It's very similar to what um when Christ
[837.5s] is writing to John, he says, "Write
[840.1s] those things which are what is present
[843.1s] um which you have seen which are
[845.6s] happening and which shall shortly happen
[848.6s] which shall shortly come to pass." Amen.
[851.1s] Um and now I want us to just go deeper
[853.8s] into some of the um um stories that come
[857.0s] out in the book of Daniel. after we've
[859.0s] seen this image being set up, tell us
[861.0s] about the image that is that
[862.9s] Nebuchadnezzar now eventually sets up in
[865.3s] Daniel chapter 3. Yes, thank you. So
[867.5s] Nebuchadnezzar is the one who actually
[869.0s] had the vision and only Nebuchadnezzar
[871.6s] um had that true representation and
[873.9s] apparently what he saw um when he saw uh
[877.0s] the gold um image that was going to be
[880.7s] followed by an inferior metal, silver
[883.1s] and then brass and so on so forth, he
[885.6s] apparently displeased him. So in the
[887.5s] book of Daniel chapter 3 reading from
[889.4s] verse one the Nebuchadnezzar the king
[891.6s] made an image of gold whose height was
[894.0s] 60 cubits and the breadth was 6 cubits.
[896.6s] So it's 60 high by six and six. Very
[899.6s] interesting you know it's weird you find
[901.3s] 666 all over the scripture in weird
[903.2s] places. Um so uh he builds it and then
[906.4s] he sets up this image on the plane of
[908.2s] Dura on the in in the province of
[910.6s] Babylon. And then we are told from verse
[913.0s] two and verse three he says that
[915.5s] everyone must come to the dedication of
[917.4s] the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king
[919.8s] had made. And then we are told in verse
[923.0s] 4 and verse 5, the herald cries out uh
[926.2s] to you it is commanded all people,
[928.5s] nations and languages that at what time
[931.3s] you hear the sound of all these
[933.2s] instruments, the cornet etc etc that you
[935.9s] will bow down, fall down and worship the
[938.6s] golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the
[940.5s] king has made. And those who would not
[943.0s] worship immediately what will happen to
[945.3s] them? They will be cast into the fire
[947.4s] and they will be burnt at that same
[949.4s] hour. and and and that tells us a few
[952.6s] things. First of all, it tells us that
[954.2s] Nebuchadnezzar saw that image and
[956.4s] refused to accept that his kingdom would
[958.7s] end. He said that him his kingdom is
[961.4s] from head to toe. And then secondly, it
[963.8s] is shall it shall be woripped. It is
[966.2s] actually a divine um representation. It
[969.0s] is not just any other thing that shall
[970.6s] be swept away and cast into nothing
[972.8s] because as Rafael described just a few
[975.1s] minutes ago, that image in the dream in
[977.6s] the prophecy, what happened? It was
[978.9s] crushed into into powder like basically
[981.2s] it it disappeared into nothingness. But
[983.4s] in this case Nebuchadnezzar says no his
[985.8s] kingdom the image shall last forever in
[989.0s] effect that he's saying this is actually
[990.6s] a divine object a divine entity that he
[993.8s] he personally is establishing and he
[996.0s] forms and calls everyone to actually
[998.5s] worship this particular image. He's
[1000.2s] basically saying that my kingdom will
[1002.7s] never um fall and I will remain king
[1005.6s] forever defying the very voice of God.
[1008.2s] Yes, exactly. And interestingly, the way
[1010.5s] he was defying the voice is almost like
[1012.2s] you could say Lucifer sort of because in
[1014.6s] the in uh in the end we actually find
[1016.5s] that Nebuchadnezzar eventually he
[1018.6s] repents of um um of what he had done but
[1021.9s] Lucifer does not. But you can actually
[1023.8s] see sort of echoes of that you know uh
[1026.7s] uh one of the verses we like reading in
[1028.3s] the book of Isaiah chapter 14 uh verse
[1030.8s] 12 where it says how art thou fallen
[1033.1s] from heaven oh Lucifer son of the
[1035.2s] morning. If you actually read verse one,
[1037.0s] you find it's actually talking about the
[1038.6s] king of Babylon. So um of which now
[1041.3s] Lucifer is like a spirit a spiritual
[1043.8s] representation the same way that um
[1046.1s] there are prophecies of the king of
[1047.5s] Judah and it is clear that Jesus Christ
[1049.5s] is the one being described um in a
[1051.8s] spiritual in um in a higher application.
[1054.6s] So here you actually find that there's a
[1056.6s] sense in which even the spirit of Satan
[1058.6s] is present there. It tells us that this
[1060.6s] is actually one of the most dangerous
[1062.4s] and um uh uh yeah one of the most
[1066.0s] dangerous elements that element of pride
[1068.2s] that element of self-exaltation. Now
[1070.7s] within this context you actually find
[1072.5s] God's people contending because the
[1075.0s] three Hebrews Shadrach, Meshach and
[1076.6s] Abednego they are actually found caught
[1078.9s] there. you know they are among the the
[1081.4s] leadership who are actually meant to go
[1083.0s] and dedicate that I that that that
[1085.1s] Adidas image and they are asked will you
[1087.6s] bow down and worship this image and in
[1090.3s] verse 17 and verse 18 of Daniel chapter
[1092.6s] 3 we find them saying uh Shadrach
[1095.8s] Meshach and Abednego they say in verse
[1097.7s] 16 in fact it says we are not careful to
[1101.0s] answer thee on this matter we are not
[1103.1s] careful because they asked will you
[1104.9s] actually worship this image they say we
[1106.5s] are not careful what does that mean Rafa
[1108.6s] what does that like we are not careful.
[1110.5s] It simply means it's say it's a
[1112.8s] no-brainer. Yeah. Like we're not going
[1114.6s] to like argue, debate, pray somewhere.
[1117.3s] We're not even going to contemplate. It
[1118.6s] doesn't require further prayer or
[1120.1s] further study. This it is as clear as
[1122.7s] night and day. Yeah. It's just like 100%
[1125.1s] this is not even something we are
[1126.3s] thinking about. This is um we we made
[1129.2s] this decision long time ago. And and and
[1131.8s] what's the decision? If so be our God
[1134.3s] whom we serve is able to deliver us.
[1136.2s] Verse 17, out of the burning fiery
[1138.0s] furnace, he will deliver us out of your
[1140.6s] hand, O king. But if not, let it be
[1143.0s] known unto thee, O king, that we will
[1144.8s] not serve thy gods, nor worship the
[1147.0s] golden image which thou hast set up. And
[1150.3s] and you know, it's not even that they
[1152.2s] try and soften that message. They tried
[1154.5s] and used, you know, euphemism. Um they
[1157.3s] tried and used like nice fancy language.
[1159.2s] you know these days we have technology
[1160.6s] that can allow us to really uh freshen
[1163.0s] up our language and and even like modify
[1165.4s] it you know like chach and like
[1167.4s] generative AI really has really um
[1169.4s] opened many horizons but uh uh for the
[1172.6s] three Hebrews they just laid it plainly
[1174.9s] and they said plainly 100% we are sorry
[1177.7s] we will not do this thing and the
[1179.5s] plainness of their statement and their
[1182.1s] in inability to change it angered
[1185.0s] angered Nebuchadnezzar at that time and
[1187.0s] and what happened he said that three
[1189.2s] times so sorry seven times that furnace
[1192.4s] was made hotter. I don't know how how
[1194.1s] exactly it like it was his language that
[1196.0s] he was using that to describe what he
[1197.8s] was going to do to make that furnace
[1199.8s] seven times hotter. And he cast those
[1202.3s] three Hebrews into the furnace. And
[1204.1s] guess what happened at the end? At the
[1205.9s] very end where he cast them in um verse
[1209.3s] 25, lo, I see four men loose and walking
[1213.3s] in the midst of the fire and they have
[1215.5s] no heart and the form of the fourth is
[1217.8s] like the son of God. So of the two
[1221.4s] things that the three Hebrews said that
[1223.0s] would happen, either number one, God
[1225.1s] will deliver them, or number two, even
[1227.1s] if God does not deliver them, they will
[1229.8s] still remain in the fire, they will
[1231.6s] accept this um uh this persecution and
[1235.0s] this this uh suffering on God's behalf.
[1237.9s] God actually came through for them and
[1239.9s] rescued them and saved them. We'll
[1242.1s] actually go through a few um stories um
[1244.8s] uh in a few minutes and we'll actually
[1246.3s] find that occasionally um God is
[1248.9s] glorified in martyrdom and other times
[1251.2s] God is glorified in how he protects his
[1253.5s] saints but in all things God is
[1255.4s] glorified. So in this particular lesson
[1257.2s] of worshiping the image and I'm sure um
[1259.4s] in the next um um session in the next uh
[1263.0s] day we'll actually go through the
[1264.2s] spiritual application at least in this
[1266.2s] literal application we actually find
[1268.6s] that there was a king who established an
[1271.2s] image an image requiring worship and
[1273.4s] there was even a death decree that was
[1275.4s] attached to that worship to rejecting
[1277.8s] that worship and God in the end came
[1280.1s] through for his people. Amen. Amen.
[1282.8s] Amen. I brother Rafael, let me just
[1284.8s] bring you in here and just talk to us
[1287.2s] about the the importance or the kind of
[1289.8s] faith we actually need to be able to go
[1292.3s] through such trials when we are when we
[1294.8s] are deep in trial and when we think that
[1298.1s] uh our our faith is being tested. What
[1300.7s] kind of faith do we need and what can we
[1302.6s] look to? Um how can we be encouraged?
[1304.8s] What are some of the promises we can
[1306.2s] look to? Um similarly to Shadrach,
[1308.5s] Meshach and Abednego I believe um Paul
[1311.8s] speaks about uh some of these things in
[1313.7s] the book of Romans chapter 8 and uh he
[1316.8s] asks the question um
[1320.1s] in verse 35 Romans chapter 8 and verse
[1322.6s] 35 Paul asks and says who shall separate
[1326.2s] us from the love of Christ you know what
[1329.8s] shall take the place of God in your life
[1332.2s] what is that thing that shall threaten
[1333.6s] you to the extent that it can be able to
[1336.9s] remove you from the hands of the divine
[1339.4s] one who loves us. And he asked the
[1341.8s] question, what shall separate us from
[1343.3s] the love of Christ? Shall it be
[1345.5s] tribulation or distress or persecution
[1348.8s] or famine? As we saw last in the last uh
[1351.4s] in the last um in the last lesson uh
[1354.1s] when we looked at uh Ruth, you know
[1356.2s] what? And offer what is it? Could it be
[1359.0s] nakedness, you know, or peril or sword?
[1362.7s] As it is written, he Paul writes and
[1365.2s] says, "For thy sake we are killed all
[1367.1s] the day long. We are counted as sheep
[1369.5s] for the slaughter. Nay, in all these
[1372.0s] things we are more than conquerors
[1373.7s] through him that has loved us." Indeed,
[1376.8s] we conquer. And faith is the victory. We
[1379.3s] if we have faith in him and he who has
[1381.9s] loved, he is able to sustain us through
[1383.9s] these difficulties. In verse 38, he
[1385.8s] says, "For I am persuaded that neither
[1387.4s] death nor life, nor angels, nor
[1389.2s] principalities, nor powers, nor things
[1391.7s] present, nor things to come." There's
[1393.4s] nothing presently in your life, there's
[1395.0s] nothing presently in your future. That's
[1397.8s] an oxymoron. But uh whatever it is, both
[1401.7s] present and in the future, there's
[1403.3s] nothing that can be able to do to do
[1405.3s] what? To remove you from the hands of
[1407.4s] God, from that sure shepherd in an
[1409.7s] unsure world. It says it can be any it
[1411.7s] can be a height. It can be any depth.
[1413.2s] can't be any other creature shall be
[1415.0s] able to separate us from the love of God
[1417.1s] which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Even
[1419.8s] sin itself and death is not able to
[1422.2s] separate us from the love of God if we
[1424.0s] have believed in him. And I think it it
[1426.5s] also it is also good to have the
[1428.5s] backstory of Shadrach, Meshach and
[1429.8s] Abednego. Where were they coming from?
[1431.8s] These were refugees. These were the the
[1434.8s] the the what you would what you would
[1437.5s] call uh like the trophies of war. Their
[1440.2s] nation had has been ravaged. The temple
[1442.4s] has been destroyed. Their nation has
[1444.5s] been has been has been has been
[1446.2s] destroyed completely. And now they are
[1448.2s] they taken captives and they in this
[1450.2s] foreign land. But through it all, they
[1452.3s] still remember the God of their father.
[1454.3s] Through it all, they they still believe
[1456.5s] in God's power to heal, to sustain, to
[1460.2s] rescue. Even if he allowed the nation to
[1463.3s] be destroyed, they say he's still
[1465.3s] faithful and they will still be faithful
[1466.9s] to him. Amen. Amen. And you know in the
[1470.4s] last days as we move on to the Tuesday
[1473.5s] part we see another image being set up.
[1477.4s] In the book of Revelation chapter 13 we
[1480.2s] are introduced to certain beasts. We are
[1483.1s] told of one beast that comes out of the
[1485.3s] sea. But from verse 11 we are told of an
[1487.7s] interesting beast that does not come out
[1490.1s] of the sea. You know all the other
[1491.5s] beasts in Bible prophecy. We see them
[1494.2s] coming out of seas and we see them
[1496.4s] coming out of places where winds are
[1498.4s] blowing and there's a lot of strife
[1500.2s] among people and among nations for them
[1502.6s] to rise up into supremacy. But this
[1505.0s] beast is very different. It comes out of
[1507.9s] the Bible says it is it comes out of the
[1510.8s] earth an unpopulated place. It means it
[1513.1s] comes out from a different location than
[1515.4s] all the other beasts that were arising.
[1517.4s] And you know, we know in Bible prophecy
[1519.4s] that a beast represents a kingdom. And
[1522.2s] kingdoms and nations only appear in
[1525.1s] Bible prophecy or are presented in the
[1527.6s] word of God as only as they come into
[1530.6s] contact with the church of God. And
[1533.5s] therefore, this beast as it is being
[1535.5s] represented, this nation as it's being
[1538.0s] as it is rising up, God brings it up
[1541.0s] because of its significance in the last
[1543.4s] days as it it interacts with the church
[1546.2s] of God. We are told that this beast
[1548.8s] exercisth all the power of the first
[1551.4s] beast before him, and it caus them which
[1555.0s] dwell therein to worship the first
[1557.3s] beast, whose deadly wound was healed. We
[1560.8s] can see a nation that is rising up in
[1563.4s] the last days. And it is causing uh um
[1566.8s] the people of this world not to worship
[1569.4s] the only true God, the creator of the
[1571.6s] heaven and the earth, but it is causing
[1573.8s] the worship to be directed to a
[1576.6s] particular beast, to the first beast
[1578.8s] that rose out of the sea. In verse 13,
[1581.3s] we are told, "He doeth great wonders, so
[1584.1s] that he maketh fire come down from
[1586.0s] heaven, on the earth, and in the sight
[1588.4s] of men, and deceiveth them that dwell on
[1591.0s] the earth, by the means of those
[1593.2s] miracles, which he had power to do in
[1596.0s] the sight of the beast, saying to them
[1598.4s] that dwell on the earth, that they
[1600.5s] should make an image to the beast." The
[1603.7s] same way an image was formed in Daniel
[1606.6s] chapter 2, a similar image is formed in
[1609.8s] the book of Revelation chapter 13.
[1612.4s] Reminding you that all these things were
[1614.8s] written for our ensemble. So for so
[1617.7s] those whom the end of the world are
[1620.1s] come. The Bible says, "And he had power
[1623.1s] to give life unto the image of the
[1625.8s] beast, that the image of the beast
[1628.6s] should both speak and cause as many as
[1631.6s] would not worship the image of the beast
[1634.9s] should be killed." The same way
[1636.5s] Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, there
[1638.6s] was a death decree that went out that
[1641.0s] anyone who does not bow to this image,
[1643.6s] they will be killed. Similarly in the
[1646.2s] last days we are told that a similar
[1648.4s] image that will be formed and this image
[1651.4s] again the issue will be still under the
[1654.2s] same thing worship. Will we worship the
[1657.2s] commandments of men? This image will I
[1660.1s] mean this beast will rise up and it will
[1662.4s] speak giving the commandments of men.
[1665.4s] Will we worship the commandments of men
[1667.6s] or will we worship the commandments of
[1669.6s] God? The same issues that came up in the
[1672.3s] book of Daniel chapter 3 will come up in
[1675.0s] the last days. And what is this first
[1677.1s] beast? What is this first beast that
[1678.6s] rises up out of the earth? Firstly, we
[1681.0s] have established that this beast cannot
[1683.1s] be rising up like the other beasts in
[1685.3s] places that are populated. And we know
[1687.7s] that the other beasts being Rome,
[1689.8s] Greece, um um Babylon, they were all
[1693.0s] they were all set up in one particular
[1695.4s] part of the earth. But we know this
[1697.5s] beast comes up I mean one particular
[1700.2s] side of the world but we know this beast
[1702.5s] does not come up from that particular
[1704.2s] side of the world. Why? We do know that
[1707.7s] this particular beast comes out from an
[1710.4s] unpopulated area which is as we know one
[1713.6s] of the last nations that rose up that
[1716.5s] rose up later on from an from an
[1719.1s] unpopulated place and which happens to
[1721.7s] be the American the United States of
[1725.0s] America. The lamblike beast that rose up
[1728.6s] having two horns, having two horns,
[1731.3s] speaking, you know, marvelously. The
[1733.8s] beast that establishes freedom,
[1736.1s] liberties, you know, they say it is the
[1737.6s] land of the free. Liberties, liberties
[1740.5s] that where we say people have the
[1742.2s] ability to worship as they would have,
[1744.0s] they have the rights of conscience.
[1745.8s] Those rights were protected by the
[1747.6s] state. This beast rose up speaking
[1750.1s] indeed like a lamb. It looked so
[1752.2s] innocent. It looked like it was the
[1753.7s] place where Christians could flee and
[1755.9s] find help. But we are told as it
[1758.1s] develops, it starts speaking like the
[1760.9s] dragon. It starts exercising the power
[1763.4s] of the first beast. And we are told it
[1765.5s] establishes an image to the beast. It it
[1769.1s] it it it and and and and let me actually
[1772.2s] just pause here and say one thing. You
[1774.6s] know, when it comes to the persecution
[1776.5s] of the people of God, you will never
[1779.6s] find um any political state rising up
[1784.0s] and just because they feel like it
[1785.9s] persecuting the children of God for no
[1788.4s] reason. People are persecuted because of
[1791.4s] the laws that distinguish them. They are
[1794.5s] persecuted because of their worship.
[1797.0s] They are persecuted because they
[1799.0s] threaten another religion. So a a nation
[1802.6s] cannot just rise up and persecute a
[1805.6s] particular people if there's no religion
[1808.2s] that is being threatened. So for this
[1810.5s] nation to rise up and starts persecuting
[1813.2s] the people of God, there must be a
[1815.6s] religion that is set up in that state
[1818.2s] that is being threatened. And so the
[1820.6s] union of this religion and the state
[1823.9s] will cause the true worshippers of God
[1826.9s] to be persecuted. And that is what we
[1829.4s] expect in these last days. And you know
[1831.3s] as I was reading this lesson you know we
[1833.4s] were thinking of and sometimes we think
[1835.3s] of this and say these things are they
[1837.4s] are going to come far into the future.
[1840.0s] They sound absurd when we actually speak
[1843.0s] nowadays and say you know this the law
[1845.6s] of God is going to come into question.
[1848.2s] It sounds absurd when we talk about um
[1851.0s] uh Sunday worship and we say those who
[1853.4s] will not worship on Sunday will be
[1856.6s] persecuted. But friends, if you have
[1859.2s] been looking at the news, if you have
[1861.1s] been uh observing what is happening
[1863.6s] daytoday, you will see that there's a
[1865.8s] Sunday law movement that is gaining
[1868.4s] ground in the United States of America.
[1871.0s] People are standing up and making
[1872.9s] legislations and saying that now we want
[1875.6s] to start up to start a state where
[1878.1s] people will all come and worship on
[1879.8s] Sunday. And if you do not worship on
[1881.4s] Sunday, we want to make sure that this
[1883.3s] nation is a religious nation. We want to
[1885.9s] restore religion in this state. And it
[1889.0s] sounded absurd maybe five years ago, 10
[1891.5s] years ago, but today people are rising
[1894.1s] up and they are saying we want America
[1896.5s] to be a religious nation again. And they
[1899.6s] are busy urging for laws that would
[1902.5s] restore Sunday sacredness as the true
[1905.9s] and formal day of worship in the United
[1908.8s] States of America. They are preparing
[1911.8s] for that day when we say indeed those
[1914.1s] who do not worship on Sunday will be
[1917.5s] persecuted. It sounded absurd. It is no
[1920.0s] longer absurd. The children of God need
[1922.7s] to prepare today need to be ready for
[1925.4s] these persecuting powers indeed are
[1928.2s] slowly forming an image to the beast. I
[1931.4s] know I have said much. I will just pause
[1933.2s] right there to allow my my husband to
[1935.6s] also add a comment to this. Yeah, it's
[1938.0s] actually very interesting um the um
[1941.0s] harapid that has actually been fulfilled
[1943.3s] that we have seen a lot of the
[1945.0s] degeneracy and a lot of um the
[1947.9s] corruption of ethics um especially in
[1950.2s] America that has called for this very
[1952.3s] many people who are Christians who do
[1954.6s] actually um uh it's difficult for me to
[1957.0s] even doubt their their faith or at least
[1958.9s] the sincerity of their faith. It appears
[1960.9s] that they they actually do feel that
[1962.6s] what they're doing is of the Lord. That
[1965.1s] they feel it is of the Lord for them to
[1967.5s] take back the reigns of government from
[1969.4s] the secular arm and reestablish
[1972.1s] religion. And that's actually what you
[1973.7s] find there of an image, a replica of the
[1977.4s] beast. The beast we saw was the people
[1980.5s] system, that mixture of Christianity and
[1984.2s] the powers of of um of Europe at that
[1987.6s] time. So for instance um the the the the
[1992.3s] popup of Rome was the one who would
[1994.5s] place the crown on the the emperor for
[1997.2s] instance and the emperor was was
[1999.0s] actually in charge of largely um the
[2001.6s] election of the pope as an example that
[2003.4s] kind of very very tight union of those
[2005.1s] two systems that system was destroyed
[2007.5s] and it was killed in 1798 we actually
[2010.7s] are seeing slow slowly that image that
[2013.4s] replica it's almost like a mirror image
[2015.4s] of that system beginning to be formed in
[2017.6s] America even today is very very
[2019.2s] troubling and and it should not be
[2021.3s] something that is fearful. In fact, in
[2022.6s] the very beginning um on the Sunday part
[2025.3s] um it was important where they're saying
[2026.8s] we should ultimately view all these
[2028.6s] events with hope and not with fear. Not
[2030.9s] because we aren't to be scared but just
[2033.0s] to understand that the these final
[2035.2s] events which are rapid are rapidly being
[2037.1s] fulfilled before our very eyes. Amen.
[2039.6s] Amen. Brother Raphael, um, just talk to
[2042.2s] us about God's wrath being made manifest
[2045.9s] or God's wrath being revealed in these
[2048.4s] last days or it shall be revealed
[2050.7s] against those who practice wickedness
[2053.0s] because they choose to follow human
[2055.3s] tradition rather than the laws of God.
[2058.0s] Indeed, um, the Bible is very clear
[2061.5s] about um, about some of these things as
[2064.2s] they have been captured um, in black and
[2067.1s] white. And if we simply students of the
[2069.8s] Bible, then we know for a fact that
[2073.3s] beyond a particular point, God has to
[2075.7s] intervene. Beyond a particular point,
[2077.6s] God steps into the picture. And
[2079.6s] therefore, we are driven to uh the book
[2083.6s] of Revelation 18. Revelation chapter 18,
[2087.3s] we find God himself now speaking from
[2089.7s] heaven, you know, with a loud voice.
[2091.3s] We've seen the the context of the of the
[2094.4s] um of the uh of the three angels
[2097.3s] messages. It's a it's not a it's not a
[2098.6s] it's not a new it's not a new it's not a
[2100.8s] new concept. It's not a new a new truth.
[2103.2s] But beyond it all, we're told there was
[2105.3s] another voice from heaven. You know uh
[2109.0s] uh revelation allow me to read uh
[2112.2s] revelation chapter 18 verse 1-5. Okay.
[2115.8s] Uh it says after these things I saw
[2117.6s] another angel come down from heaven
[2119.4s] having great power and the earth was
[2121.7s] lighted with his glory. It's a powerful
[2123.6s] angel and he's the light the earth it
[2125.9s] says it's lighted with his glory and he
[2129.0s] cries mightily with a strong voice
[2130.8s] saying what Babylon the great is fallen
[2133.5s] is fallen and it has become the
[2135.1s] habitation of what of devils and the
[2137.6s] hold of every foul spirit and a cage for
[2140.1s] every unclean and hateful bad. the
[2143.4s] things that are happening in this
[2144.6s] system, the things that are happening in
[2146.1s] this world under this system are are are
[2149.0s] so nauseating to God and to the extent
[2151.1s] that he calls it not only um uh the hold
[2155.7s] of every foul spirit but also a cage for
[2159.3s] every unclean and headful and um hateful
[2162.6s] bad. It's like a it's like a
[2164.2s] conglomeration of all of all that God
[2166.6s] does not like of all that the things
[2168.2s] that God um that God dislikes and
[2171.7s] despises. And verse three says, "For all
[2174.0s] the nations have drank of the wine of
[2175.8s] the wrath over fornication, and the
[2177.6s] kings of the earth have committed
[2178.8s] fornication with her, and the merchants
[2180.5s] of the earth are works rich through the
[2182.6s] abundance of a delicacies. People are
[2184.5s] benefiting from these systems, you know,
[2186.1s] the people who are comfortable, the
[2187.7s] people who are doing well, appearing in
[2189.7s] lists of of rich and wealthy people and
[2192.0s] and um and enjoying high society life.
[2194.8s] But all this um the fourth um verse four
[2198.9s] tells us John the scene changes and it
[2201.4s] says I heard another voice from heaven
[2203.2s] saying come out of her my people that he
[2207.0s] be not partakers of her sins and that he
[2209.5s] receive not of her what of her plagues.
[2212.5s] Why? For her sins have reached unto
[2215.1s] heaven and God hath remembered her
[2217.8s] iniquities. God keeps an accurate record
[2220.9s] of the things that happened down here.
[2223.1s] We may be enjoying the best of society.
[2225.3s] We may be enjoying um the the the the
[2228.3s] wonderful things that Babylon and and
[2230.1s] its systems provide for us, but the
[2232.2s] Bible records eventually the door of
[2234.8s] mercy will will shut. Eventually the cup
[2238.0s] of probation uh will be full and
[2240.3s] probation will close and the Bible
[2242.6s] records and says her sins will reach
[2245.5s] into heaven and God will remember her
[2247.9s] iniquities. If you allow me to read
[2249.3s] verse six, it says, "Reward her even as
[2252.8s] she rewarded you. Double unto her,
[2255.6s] double according to her works in the cup
[2258.1s] which she had filled. Fill to her
[2260.8s] double." The extent to which the people
[2264.2s] of God are disturbed by the by the by
[2266.5s] the children of darkness, God says he
[2269.0s] will double it to them. What what a
[2274.0s] chilling revelation. Something that
[2276.0s] ought to we ought to think about.
[2277.4s] Imagine God says what men have done you
[2281.0s] know all these wars all these uh take
[2283.8s] people taking advantage of each other
[2285.3s] people suffering all this God says he'll
[2288.0s] come he'll he'll he he'll double if you
[2291.0s] have done this you'll receive double out
[2293.2s] of it all because of disobedience but
[2296.3s] the wonderful truth is that the
[2298.2s] wonderful um message for all of us is
[2300.4s] that God still sees his people in in in
[2302.6s] Babylon and his message to us today is
[2305.9s] come out of her my people. Amen. You
[2308.6s] know, the Bible says that the the the
[2311.5s] dragon was wroth with the woman because
[2314.3s] she kept the commandments of God. And
[2317.0s] secondly, she had the faith of Jesus.
[2319.6s] Beloved, if there was a time today, we
[2322.0s] we would ask God for that kind of faith
[2324.6s] that will take us through that time, it
[2326.8s] is now. If there was a time for us to be
[2328.9s] more steadfast with the keeping of the
[2330.8s] commandments of God, the time is now.
[2333.5s] The issues at the end will be on those
[2335.9s] two points. Do we keep the commandments
[2338.2s] of God or the commandments of men? And
[2340.8s] do we indeed pursue the faith of Christ?
[2342.9s] That Christ indeed will give us victory
[2345.4s] over every besetting sin. That is the
[2347.6s] faith we are asked to have. That Christ
[2349.7s] indeed will be able to take us through
[2351.9s] every calamity, every trial, every
[2354.9s] temptation and will come out at the end
[2357.5s] victorious. Do you have that kind of
[2359.8s] faith? The Lord is able to give you that
[2362.1s] kind of faith. He says, "Come to me, buy
[2364.2s] of me gold that has been tried in the
[2366.5s] fire." That gold, it is his faith. Now,
[2370.0s] there is also another story found in the
[2372.6s] New Testament that I would want us to
[2374.5s] explore. God has given us enough from
[2378.0s] scripture to encourage us that indeed
[2380.6s] the days ahead, he knows about them and
[2383.4s] he wants us to be ready for them, but he
[2385.4s] wants us to he wants us to be reminded
[2387.7s] that he will go through those trying
[2389.8s] moments with us. tell us about the story
[2392.6s] of Peter and the what Peter went
[2395.5s] through. Indeed, the Bible records the
[2398.7s] story of Peter in the book of Acts uh
[2400.8s] chapter 12 and it begins in verse one.
[2403.1s] I'd like us to consider um verses uh
[2405.9s] just a few verses and then I'll
[2407.2s] summarize the story because we're
[2408.8s] supposed to read consider the whole
[2410.1s] story from Acts 12:1-17.
[2412.7s] Um verse one says, "Now about that time
[2415.8s] Herod the king stretched forth his hand
[2417.7s] to ve certain of the church. The king we
[2421.2s] see a pagan power persecuting what the
[2426.2s] church you see the state is now acting
[2429.8s] uh is doing what is hurting the church
[2432.2s] the the state is persecuting the church
[2434.7s] and then what what does he do he's the
[2437.0s] Bible records he stretch forth he's
[2438.6s] stretching forth his hand to vex certain
[2441.4s] of the church it tells us it's not all
[2443.6s] of everybody in the church but certain a
[2445.8s] certain group and as you said this group
[2448.4s] was known how they had the testimony of
[2451.2s] Christ and the spirit of prophecy. These
[2453.3s] were the Christians. These are those the
[2454.8s] early church that Christ had what had
[2456.7s] left and established on earth. And it is
[2458.9s] these that that Herod the king decided
[2461.9s] to do what? To touch and to vex and to
[2464.2s] punish. Uh giving us uh glimpses of what
[2467.7s] Revelation 13 as you rightfully took us
[2469.8s] through uh is fortelling of the future
[2472.5s] of the of of this same church as it has
[2475.0s] gone on through the generations. Verse
[2477.4s] two gives us one important bit and it
[2479.4s] tells us and he killed who? James the
[2482.3s] brother of John with the sword. We see
[2486.1s] political power once again uh emphasized
[2489.2s] and and and typified as a sword. The
[2491.6s] king killing uh a Christian a follower
[2494.4s] of of Christ well nigh a disciple by the
[2497.0s] name of James. And then in verse three
[2499.4s] what is the reaction of the of the of of
[2501.3s] the of the people to this to this to
[2503.5s] this atrocity to this murder to this
[2505.6s] persecution? Verse three says, "And
[2507.5s] because he saw it pleased the Jews, he
[2510.3s] proceeded further to take Peter also,
[2513.8s] and these were the days of what?" "And
[2515.7s] live bread." Almost the days of what?
[2517.8s] Almost the Passover. Almost just after
[2519.9s] the Passover, almost like the time of
[2521.4s] Christ once again when Christ dies as
[2524.2s] that Passover lamb. We see uh Peter now
[2526.7s] has also been caught. And as when they
[2529.4s] apprehended him, the Bible continues and
[2531.4s] tells us that he put him he he he
[2533.6s] arrested him and put him in in prison as
[2535.7s] if he was the most wanted criminal in
[2537.6s] all of Israel under tight security and
[2541.1s] in a very well fortified area. But the
[2544.6s] Bible also tells us that as Peter had
[2546.9s] been arrested and as the church was
[2548.5s] under persecution, the church gathered
[2550.3s] together and it shows us the power of
[2552.3s] when the church gathers together and the
[2554.1s] church prayed. prays the church. The
[2555.9s] church prays and the Bible records that
[2557.8s] an angel was sent and the angel comes to
[2560.7s] Peter and finds Peter sound asleep or
[2563.9s] for a faith such as the faith of Peter.
[2566.2s] Amen. That he's facing eminent death.
[2568.5s] His friend and and and fellow fisherman
[2571.4s] in the past has been killed by the name
[2573.6s] of James and he's now he probably feels
[2576.8s] that he's next. Imagine your last what
[2580.0s] could be quote unquote your last night
[2581.5s] on earth. What would you be doing?
[2583.9s] Definitely not sleeping. Yeah, maybe
[2585.8s] you'll be writing letters, you know,
[2587.4s] telling people, oh, you know, I buried
[2589.0s] some gold somewhere. I have a title did
[2591.2s] somewhere. Please give to so and so. But
[2593.1s] Peter says the things of this earth he
[2595.7s] has left and he's sleeping soundly. He's
[2598.2s] sleeping so soundly that the Bible
[2599.5s] records that the angel had to wake him
[2601.4s] up to sort of nudge him, you know, like
[2603.9s] it wasn't easy to wake him up.
[2606.5s] The Bible records, I think it is in the
[2608.2s] book of Isaiah 26 and:3, that will keep
[2610.6s] him in perfect whose mind is stayed upon
[2614.0s] thee because he trusted in thee. God is
[2617.1s] able to sustain us through difficulty.
[2618.9s] God is able to sustain us even in the
[2620.5s] very as as David would say in Psalms 23,
[2623.8s] though I walk through the very the
[2626.1s] valley of the shadow of death. Peter was
[2629.0s] in this valley and indeed the shadow of
[2631.4s] death was looming large and looming
[2633.0s] dark. But nonetheless, God was able to
[2635.9s] give him peace. Amen. Eventually, the
[2637.8s] angel wakes him up and he leads Peter
[2640.8s] and Peter thinks things think Peter to a
[2642.6s] certain extent thinks he's in a dream
[2644.2s] until eventually he's led out of the of
[2646.8s] the prison. this high maximum security
[2649.5s] situation and he walks through all those
[2651.5s] levels of security and he gets angelic
[2654.0s] clearance and eventually he goes uh to
[2657.0s] the church where the church is praying
[2658.6s] and when he's knocking uh a woman comes
[2661.1s] and opens and then runs away thinking
[2663.4s] it's a ghost you know and thinking it's
[2665.7s] a it's something strange but eventually
[2667.8s] they come and they realize indeed it is
[2669.5s] Peter whom they are praying for who is
[2671.4s] outside the gate also almost almost a
[2673.2s] rebuke to sometimes the way we pray and
[2676.2s] we limit God. You know, sometimes you're
[2678.2s] praying for something, but you're
[2679.4s] telling God, I know uh the way the world
[2682.6s] says, you know, aim for the stars, you
[2685.8s] may land on the moon. Sometimes our
[2687.6s] prayers are like that. You know, you
[2689.0s] say, "Okay, God, this is what I want."
[2690.6s] But also, if you give me this, I'm okay.
[2694.2s] And then sometimes in the process of God
[2695.8s] answering uh your prayer, sometimes for
[2698.4s] you to go to the stars, you may you must
[2700.1s] first of all pass through the moon. And
[2701.6s] sometimes we may so in the moon and we
[2703.2s] may get comfortable not and we forget
[2705.2s] that God wants to take us where to take
[2707.3s] us higher. And so the disciples uh were
[2709.9s] praying um the Christians were praying
[2711.6s] and then they were shocked that God
[2713.5s] answers this prayer and eventually Peter
[2717.1s] was was saved at that particular
[2718.9s] occasion. But later on we are told as
[2721.2s] Christ had predicted in John 21 18 and
[2723.8s] 19 that a time would come that he would
[2726.1s] be led in his old age to a place where
[2728.2s] he wouldn't he wouldn't know where I
[2729.6s] was. Fox's book of matters writes um um
[2732.2s] and says that Peter was crucified but
[2734.5s] because he felt himself not worthy to be
[2736.6s] crucified like Christ he has to be
[2738.2s] crucified what upside down he gave his
[2741.3s] life eventually persecution did catch up
[2743.4s] with him but ultimately through it all
[2745.6s] God was simply demonstrating that if it
[2747.8s] is for his honor and for his glory and
[2749.7s] in response to the prayers of the church
[2751.7s] he is able to intervene in any in each
[2753.8s] and every situation in our lives whether
[2755.8s] persecution is present whether whether
[2757.6s] through persecution through perscute
[2759.8s] ution and dying or through persecution
[2761.8s] and salvation. Nonetheless, through each
[2764.8s] the name of God is blessed and
[2767.0s] glorified. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. And
[2769.6s] you know, we touched on this uh uh the
[2771.8s] last week that during the time of
[2774.5s] trouble, Jacob's time of trouble, there
[2777.1s] is no Christian who is going to die. The
[2780.3s] trouble will be all around us, but no
[2783.0s] one will die during that time. Even when
[2785.0s] the death decree goes out in the book of
[2787.1s] revelation chapter 13 there is no
[2789.8s] Christian who is going to die during the
[2792.6s] little time of trouble before close of
[2794.6s] human probation. Some will die some will
[2797.4s] be mired but at the time of trouble God
[2800.1s] will preserve all his children. Quite an
[2802.2s] encouragement that it is a time of
[2804.5s] trouble so great that none has imagined
[2806.5s] it. Yet there is no saint just the same
[2809.2s] way they entered in the fiery furnace
[2811.4s] came out preserved. We will go into that
[2814.2s] furnace and we will come out untouched
[2816.8s] and we will come out unscathed. Talk to
[2819.6s] us about the true issue in the last
[2822.7s] days. What will be what will be the main
[2825.0s] issue of controversy in the last days?
[2827.9s] Amen. So explicitly um actually it's
[2830.7s] what you were talking about when you
[2832.0s] went through the Tuesday lesson. It is
[2833.9s] the conflict between the seal of God and
[2836.1s] the mark of the beast. But within that
[2838.4s] conflict, you actually find what the
[2840.5s] true issue is. In the book of Revelation
[2842.6s] 12:1 17, we actually find um uh the the
[2847.3s] the devil. We are told the dragon was
[2849.8s] wroth with the woman and went to make
[2851.8s] war with the rest of her offspring, the
[2854.2s] remnant of her seed, which keep the
[2856.5s] commandments of God and have the
[2858.1s] testimony of Jesus said. So on one side,
[2860.4s] we have obedience to God and his
[2862.1s] commandments. And on the other side you
[2863.9s] have the principles, the laws and the
[2865.6s] systems of the beast, the antichrist
[2867.9s] power and and and and specific and at
[2871.4s] the core of that is actually the issue
[2873.6s] of the Sabbath. We know that the seal of
[2876.3s] God, Revelation chapter 7, will be
[2878.3s] placed upon the forehead of God's
[2879.8s] people. Now the seal in the book of
[2881.7s] Revelation is just called the father's
[2883.6s] name. In Revelation 14, we are told the
[2886.2s] 144,000 who have the seal elsewhere, we
[2888.5s] are told they have the father's name in
[2890.2s] their forehead. But then in the old and
[2892.8s] the new testament elsewhere we are told
[2895.1s] two things that it is the father's name
[2898.1s] on the forehead is written by who? By
[2900.2s] the holy spirit. That is why in the book
[2902.2s] of Ephesians we are told the holy spirit
[2904.2s] seals you. Yeah. Ephesians chapter 4 I
[2907.4s] mean Ephesians chapter 1 we are told
[2909.1s] that the holy spirit seals god's people.
[2911.2s] But the holy spirit seals what? He seals
[2913.5s] the law in the foreheads in the minds of
[2916.1s] god's people. But and and in the book of
[2918.8s] Isaiah 8:16, we are told what seal the
[2921.9s] law among my disciples. But
[2924.8s] specifically, you know, we um again in
[2926.6s] the revelation, we are told that the
[2928.2s] seal is the father's name. Specifically,
[2930.3s] we are told that specifically that
[2932.2s] 144,000 have the father's name in their
[2934.4s] forehead. So specifically, what does the
[2936.3s] holy spirit seal in the foreheads of
[2937.8s] God's people? In the book of Exodus
[2940.0s] chapter 31 and the book of Ezekiel
[2942.6s] chapter 20:12, we are told that the
[2945.3s] specific seal of God within the ten
[2947.6s] commandments is what? The seventh day
[2950.2s] Sabbath. This that the Sabbath was a
[2953.1s] seal, a representation, a demarcation of
[2956.4s] who are God's people and those who are
[2958.6s] not God's people. And then on the other
[2961.5s] hand, the what is the mark of the beast?
[2963.8s] You see uh you you took us through that
[2966.1s] study briefly that the beast power is
[2968.2s] none other than the papacy and the mark
[2970.8s] is what the beast power claims as its
[2972.7s] mark of authority which is none other
[2974.6s] than Sunday sacredness and it has done
[2977.6s] so consistently. Um in fact I was quite
[2980.6s] surprised there was even recently there
[2982.7s] is um an encyclical that was called DS
[2985.3s] Dominique. I'm not sure if it was
[2986.6s] recently by John Paul II or by the pope
[2989.4s] that followed him, um, Benedict or or or
[2992.3s] Francis, but it's a a very recent
[2994.2s] document that actually highlights
[2996.1s] specifically the position of Sunday and
[2998.8s] that every Christian must make it their
[3001.0s] mission to to to bring that legislation
[3004.2s] into effect to make Sunday um uh legally
[3007.0s] binding in the nation and the state that
[3009.4s] they are living. I was actually
[3010.6s] surprised to read that document. I was
[3012.5s] um it was quite a shocker that the mark
[3014.6s] of the beast is clearly defined by the
[3016.3s] beast power itself and the seal of God
[3018.2s] is clearly defined by God himself. And
[3021.0s] so we can find that the controversy of
[3022.7s] the last day is actually going to be be
[3024.5s] about obedience to God but about that
[3026.9s] law that is being in um h in in conflict
[3031.0s] and in controversy. Now in the book of
[3034.0s] Matthew chapter 15 we find something
[3037.1s] interesting that Christ says. Matthew
[3039.3s] chapter 15 um reading uh verse 9.
[3043.0s] Matthew 15 verse 9 we are told uh Christ
[3047.2s] speaking and he's speaking about um uh
[3050.2s] uh the the Pharisees are insisting how
[3052.6s] come God's Jesus disciples are not
[3054.9s] engaged in the rituals and the like of
[3056.8s] the Pharisees and then Christ says what
[3059.2s] in vain do they worship me teaching for
[3062.4s] doctrines the commandments of men that
[3065.6s] that that people are in vain trying to
[3068.1s] worship God and I told you that those
[3069.4s] who are trying to bring in Sunday
[3070.7s] sacredness I'm they're not doing so
[3073.2s] because they are Satanists or whatever.
[3074.9s] They're doing so because they actually
[3076.6s] believe that is the worship of God. But
[3078.7s] Christ himself is saying it is in vain
[3081.0s] if you try and substitute um God's
[3084.2s] commandments uh sorry commandments of
[3086.2s] men for the commandments of God. And in
[3088.8s] this particular case throughout the life
[3090.4s] of Christ the Sabbath itself was a key
[3092.9s] and crucial unfortunate fighting ground.
[3095.7s] Um, in the book of Mark 2 from verse
[3098.6s] 21-28, as the disciples were walking
[3101.0s] across the field, they were just picking
[3102.9s] some corn and they were rak accused of
[3105.0s] doing what? Of harvesting and of
[3107.0s] threshing. And in fact, the language in
[3108.8s] the book of Luke is that they accused of
[3110.7s] plucking it, harvesting, and accused of
[3112.6s] threshing. That's ridiculous. But that
[3114.6s] is the language that was established by
[3117.0s] the Pharisees because they created laws
[3118.9s] around the Sabbath. They manufactured
[3120.7s] their own doctrines and they attached
[3122.6s] them to the Sabbath and they made the
[3124.2s] Sabbath which otherwise was a wonderful
[3125.9s] blessing. They made it a difficult and a
[3128.6s] burden yeah a great burden for God's
[3130.7s] people. And again in the book of Matthew
[3133.3s] 12:9 to verse 14 and John 5:1-6
[3138.2s] Christ actually engages in a work of
[3140.3s] healing on the Sabbath day. Again this
[3143.2s] there's no command against healing um
[3145.4s] and doing good on the Sabbath day. In
[3147.6s] fact, in the book of Isaiah chapter 58,
[3149.5s] which is um a day that really brings
[3152.3s] forward the blessing of the Sabbath,
[3154.6s] it's all about calling calling the
[3157.4s] making the Sabbath a a delight and not
[3160.2s] doing your own pleasure like your own
[3162.2s] work and you know career activities on
[3164.4s] God's hols. But with regard to
[3167.0s] alleviating suffering, that's a
[3168.5s] wonderful thing to do on God's holy
[3170.4s] Sabbath day. But because of the
[3172.6s] doctrine, the the commandments of men
[3175.5s] that were established upon the Sabbath,
[3177.7s] the Sabbath was made grievous. And in
[3179.6s] the last days, we shall find a similar
[3181.9s] conflict. In the book of um Matthew
[3184.5s] 12:14, we actually do find Matthew
[3187.0s] 12:14. Let me just read that for us
[3188.6s] here. After Christ has done the work of
[3190.6s] healing, then the Pharisees went out and
[3193.9s] held a council against him how they
[3196.6s] might destroy him. Why? because of the
[3199.1s] work of healing that he did on the
[3200.5s] Sabbath day. Similarly, there shall be a
[3203.5s] controversy about the commandments of
[3206.2s] God and the commandments of men with
[3209.3s] regard to and and the Sabbath shall be
[3211.4s] at the center because the issue of the
[3213.8s] seal of God and the mark of the beast
[3215.7s] will have increasing urgency um as we
[3219.4s] near and near near the very final
[3221.1s] moments of this earth's history. So it
[3224.1s] again it's not for us to to be fearful
[3226.6s] but for us to have hope and for us to be
[3228.8s] encouraged in seeing all these things
[3230.5s] transpired before us. God calls upon us
[3233.0s] to stand more firmly upon simple
[3235.4s] obedience of his laws and obedience that
[3237.5s] is actuated by the work of the Holy
[3239.6s] Spirit. I repeated um uh uh I would like
[3242.5s] to repeat what I said about that issue
[3244.1s] of the seed of God. The seed of God is
[3246.9s] the Holy Spirit writing the law within
[3249.8s] the minds of God's people. And God's
[3252.1s] people therefore um uh must pray
[3255.0s] earnestly and constantly for the Holy
[3257.1s] Spirit to perform this work of sealing
[3259.6s] upon the church. Amen. Amen. And um
[3263.4s] rightly so fits very well within the new
[3267.0s] covenant promise that he himself will
[3269.5s] write his laws upon our own hearts. He
[3272.5s] will do the writing himself. You know
[3274.5s] the Bible says in the book of John 14:15
[3277.6s] that if you love me you will keep my
[3280.3s] commandments. And there are many people
[3281.9s] rising up today and asking themselves
[3284.4s] should we really is the Sabbath really
[3286.3s] such a big deal? I mean is it such a big
[3289.1s] deal? Even seven day Adventists are
[3291.2s] starting to question is this is Sabbath
[3294.3s] truly the seal of God or is Sunday
[3297.0s] sacredness truly the mark of the beast?
[3299.8s] Well the it will boil down to one thing.
[3302.5s] Will you follow tradition, what the
[3305.0s] whole world has been doing for many
[3306.8s] years, or will you follow the explicit
[3309.3s] law of God that has already been
[3311.8s] revealed? Will you accept the Bible as
[3314.0s] the true voice of God in your life and
[3316.9s] choose to follow it or will you follow
[3319.1s] the traditions of men, the tradition of
[3322.0s] the Catholic Church to keep Sunday, the
[3324.2s] tradition of the whole world to keep
[3326.0s] Sunday or will you follow the law of
[3328.8s] God? That is the question we will ask at
[3330.9s] the very end. And that is the image that
[3333.6s] will be formed to the beast. And that is
[3336.1s] what we will be asked. Bow to it or be
[3338.9s] killed. What will you follow? I think
[3341.3s] with that I want to ask uh my brother to
[3344.4s] pray with us and then we will close
[3347.1s] today. Amen. Let's believe and pray. Our
[3350.2s] kind loving father and master who art in
[3351.9s] heaven, we humbly come before you this
[3353.4s] blessed day. We're thankful Lord for
[3355.4s] enabling us to see those things that
[3358.6s] have happened in the past that we
[3360.5s] through the patience of the scriptures
[3362.7s] dear Lord as we study them we see these
[3364.9s] precursors and we can have hope dear
[3368.1s] Lord it may be that some of us are
[3370.2s] already undergoing persecution. It may
[3372.2s] be the persecution awaits us in the
[3374.1s] past, in the in in the present rather,
[3376.2s] in the future and whatever time. Dear
[3378.8s] Lord, I pray that in it all, may we be
[3382.5s] found steadfast in your love, dear Lord.
[3385.2s] Indeed, nothing can separate us from
[3387.1s] you. We believe, oh Lord, help our
[3389.3s] unbelief. Guide us and lead us firmly
[3391.8s] until that day that shall break and dawn
[3394.9s] and never set again, even that day when
[3397.3s] you shall come again our sec our a
[3399.7s] second time. is our most humble prayer
[3401.4s] believing and trusting in you. Amen.
[3403.7s] Amen. Amen.