Title: Lesson 12 || Love and Justice; The Two Greatest Commandments || 1st Quarter 2025
Video ID: OfGqMcAFM9Q
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OfGqMcAFM9Q
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
[Music] Good morning and a happy Sabbath to you uh from wherever you're watching us from. We are so glad to have you as part of this discussion today. And um I'll be Irene Jenda just being part of the panel that will be uh diving into this particular lesson of the day which is love and justice the two greatest commandments. And uh just before we start uh we could have a word of prayer from our brother Rafael uh just to uplift us. All right let's believe and pray. Our kind and loving father and master, we come once again dear lord asking and seeking that your spirit may be with us and guide us dear lord as we lead out in this discussion and even as we consider these weightier matters. May this be our experience we pray and believe. Amen. I will ask our panelists just to be able to introduce uh themselves and we'll go to the very end uh starting with our elder. I greet you all in Jesus name. Hallelujah. Amen. Thank you so much. I'm Elder Engine Pereoya, member of this church. Welcome. Happy Sabbath. I'm Agnes Whitney and glad to be here. Praise the Lord. I'm Chris Beera. I'm going to talk about called to establish justice. Happy Sabbath. My name is Enongo Rafa. It's a pleasure to be with you this Sabbath day as we consider the love of God. Praise God. It's a pleasure to be here to always have and my name is Reis Akini and I'm going to be presenting the two greatest commandments. Amen. Amen. Amen. Um, love and justice. Um, these are the two greatest commandments. And I would like to take us to the Bible text um for this particular lesson. And I'll be reading from the book of 1 John 4:20. And it says, "If someone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For who for he who does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen." And this particular uh Bible text just resonates with us and resonates with me at a personal level. If I claim not to love any any any person that is close to me, how can I love someone who's very far away? And we can see that from the previous lessons, we've been able to see that God is a God of love. God is a God of justice. And God loves justice. And us for us as his children, it means when we love God, then we should be loving justice. And anything that is happening to our brethren in terms of they're facing any kind of um uh any kind of uncertainity or circumstances that are quite um oppressive to them then it should be a matter of concern to us. It should be something that disturbs us because we are lovers of justice and we do love God. And whenever any one of us is facing or going through such a hard time for us it should be a matter of what can we do what step what steps should we take in order to bring our brother and sister out of such kind of a circumstance and um just as we go through that it then translates to we have been given these particular commandments by God and it is for us to be able to follow them and I would like to just pose it to our sister Reise in terms of sharing with us what are these greatest commandments and what are we required to do as Christians. Thank you Irene and thank you the panel and our brothers and sisters. This morning we are going to talk about these the two greatest commandments and we are told that if we keep all these then keeping the other commandments will not be a challenge and it is love. And so the question that we are asking ourselves when you are being told about love what is that? Because in our society there are so many connotations of love and it's a varied spectrum. You really never know where you are standing. But this morning, we want to know what the word of God is saying. And we see that love often calls for sacrifice because it inherently involves putting another person's needs and well-being before your own. Meaning, you may need to give up something, whether it be time, personal desires, or even your own comfort to support the person you love. Essentially, true love requires a willingness to make sacrifices for the greater good of the relationship. Love calls for selflessness, compromise, and unconditional giving. And in this light, I don't know where self love would fall at. But let us see what the lesson has to tell us. And for us to demonstrate this love, we have two options. We love God and we love our neighbor. How do we go about loving our neighbor? Because Matthew continues to remind us that love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. What does that mean? It means that we should pro prioritize God over wealth. Because we can see this from the story of the rich young ruler who said that he had kept the commandments from the beginning but he was told that one thing thou lackest. And we see that the key lesson is that loving God means putting him first over money, career, relationships or any personal desires. And for us Adventist, it means that a business owner closes their shop on the Sabbath despite losing money because they choose to honor God. And that we can get from Exodus 28-11. And a young man or woman described declines a job that requires dishonesty or corruption, choosing integrity over financial gain. And that is what Matthew 6:33 continues to remind us because we are supposed to seek the kingdom of God and all his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto us. So as a Christian my question is are the things in my life complete compete with the love of God? Then also loving God means obeying God's commandments. Because John 14:15 reminds me, if you love me, keep my commandments. So love of God is not just feelings. It is expressed through obedience of his commandments. For example, a Christian refuses to gossip in the workplace, choosing instead to speak positively. And that is a lesson we learn from Ephesians 4:29. And for reflection, if I want to know if I'm really keeping the commandments of God, is do I daily reflect Christ and the love of God in my cho choices and in my actions in my daytoday life. Amen. And we are not only encouraged to love God, but also to love my neighbor. And that's why Matthew 22 22:39 is reminding me, love your neighbor as you love yourself. And loving your neighbor is just is more than just being nice. It includes acting justly, showing mercy, and serving others selflessly. And for me as a Christian and for you as a Christian, the Lord is calling us that we should show this love to our ne our family, our friends and those people who live around us. And as the me the memory text is reminding us that we cannot claim to love God whom we have not seen and not love our neighbor or the people who are around us whom we see. We might think they are annoying. They are not lovable. They are not focused. But that is our own opinion. The word of God has a difference instruction for us. And so we can love them through caring for the poor and the needy because the rich young ruler was advised in Matthew 19:21. Sell what you have and give to the poor and you will have treasure in heaven. Loving others means helping the less fortunate instead of only concentrating or focusing on personal gain. As Christians and as members in the family of God, we can donate food and clothes to our struggling neighbors. Instead of spending extra money on luxuries and in our professions like the one that we have mostly the doctors you can help in free medical camps and whatever prof profession you are in you know how you can help your society in for free without being paid for the service you are given. The other one is forgiving and showing mercy. We are reminded in Matthew 6:14-15, for if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. Loving others means forgiving those who hurt us instead of holding grudges. And you see, like most of us Christians, we have a standard of which we expect people to live by. But those are our own standards. They're not God's standards. And most of the time when people do us wrong, we say that I will I will forgive and not forget. But it is not like that is the thing. You tell this story I will live to tell my grandchildren. So the Lord is reminding us that it is about the will. Am I willing to forgive? Can I forgive a friend, a sister, a relative who has betrayed me and not seek revenge? Because we are told that love covers a multitude of sins. And this can sometimes be seen in the relationship between parents and children. Most parents would cover their children at all cost even if the children are wrong. And that is the same love we should extend to our neighbors. So as Christians, am I holding grudges in my heart? Yeah. And the other one is about treating others fairly and justly. Give to Caesar what is Caesars and to God what is God's. Loving others means acting with integrity whether in business, government or personal relationships. So am I loving God? Because Leviticus 19:15 reminds me, do not pervert justice. Do not show partiality to the poor or favoritism to the great. But judge your neighbor fairly. So am I being fair and just? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Indeed. Uh Sister Reinis, that's a very good take through in terms of the practical ways uh in which we can show love and justice to one another in our different setups in our communities, in our workplaces, in our different capacities. And mine will be just to remind us viewers in terms of we are understanding that love is self selfless. Love is sacrificial. You need to sacrifice something in order to to show this particular love. I mean there's always an element of sacrifice that is found there. And my question will be in our different areas of life. Are there areas are there items that we are clinging on to that we believe that this could actually hinder me from getting eternal life? This could actually hinder me from um getting to the kingdom of God. So let us just reflect on that and get to understand what are some of these things, what are some of these areas that we are clinging into that could actually hinder us. And I will I would move on to our brother Raphael. Um we've just been able to to see and understand that God is love, God is justice, and he has given us two greatest commandments. And in understanding the two greatest commandments, it means that there are two greatest sins. And we could just uh dive into that and understand what are these two greatest sins. Indeed. Uh Monday calls to our attention two greatest sins. We've seen that indeed uh the greatest commandment is to love God first and foremost and secondly to love others as we love ourselves. To love ourselves also therefore is goes without saying that we should love ourselves and with the similar strength with which we love ourselves and those whom we consider to be part of ourselves we should equally love others. Now um we are called to consider Psalms 135 13-19 and I'm reading from the King James version. It says, "Thy name, O Lord, endureth forever, and thy memorial, O Lord, throughout all generations." David is praising God and is saying, "For the Lord will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants." Continues and says, "The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. They have mouths, but they speak not. They have eyes, eyes they have, but they see not. They have ears, but they hear not. Neither is there any breath in their mouths. They that make them are like unto them. So is everyone that trusts in them. Bless the Lord, oh house of Israel. Bless the Lord, oh house of Aaron. This particular text calls us uh to reflect on one common sin that was almost um the the the one thing that God belabored amongst the Israelites in the Old Testament and that was the sin of idolatry. Now the children of Israel were always uh in comparing themselves with the way they worship with the nations that surrounded them that worshiped idols. They had in them that desire to worship God through idols to the extent that even uh in the in the second commandment God enshrines there a commandment telling them that they shall not make an image of anything. You know there could be sometimes in this world you could say you're worshiping God but through the channel of this idol through the channel of this image through the channel of this but God in the second commandment explicitly says no to any form of such worship. And so idol worship is something that God looks down upon. is something that God does not look favorably upon because God, our God is a jealous God and he will not share his glory nor his worship through proxies or through any other images. And so idol worship is something that uh God was telling the children of Israel and still tells us today to put aside. The question then we ask ourselves is what is an idol? An adult is anything that we have erected in our lives either in place of God or as our God, you know. And so uh this this calls us to retrospect uh to introspect and and to also look back and ask ourselves where do we put our greatest energies? Where do we put um uh our our interests in? Where in essence are we are we sowing? Where have we invested our riches? As the Bible says, is it in heaven or is it here on earth? Do we have idols in our lives? Or are we truly worshiping God? Continues and says uh quoting from the book of Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse 5, which reinforces that we should love the Lord our God with everything with all that entails our being. The importance of loving God above all else. Secondly, we are called to consider a second aspect of another great sin before the eyes of God is found in the book of Zechariah chapter 7 verse 9 to 12. The Bible records and says, "Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying, execute true judgment, show mercy and compassions every man to his brother." To execute true judgment and to show mercy and compassions every man to his brother. Verse 10 says, "And oppress not the widow, nor the fatherless, the stranger, nor the poor, and let none of the none let none of you imagine evil against his brother in your heart, but they refused to hearken and pulled away the shoulder and stopped their ears that they should not hear." Verse 12 continues and says, "Yeah, they made their hearts as Adam and Stone lest they should hear the law and the words which the Lord of hosts had sent in his spirit by the former prophets. Therefore came a great wrath from the Lord of hosts. The lesson author wants us to reflect on these two great sins. One the sin of and and and of of placing idols any other thing that takes the the place of God and ultimately almost mirroring the second greatest uh commandment and and and and the greatest thing that God loves that is to love one another. Similarly, it speaks uh the Bible speaks to us and tells us that we have a responsibility to take care of the less fortunate in society. We have a responsibility to love one another. That it is a commandment. And anytime we move away from it, then we commit one of the two greatest sins. And that is when we ex when we do not execute true judgment, when we do not show mercy and compassions. When we oppress the widows, you know, and the fatherless, the orphans, the strangers because they are not from from from our tribe or they they don't they're not from our church. They're not from our whatever ism or schism that we have used to separate and to demarcate our ourselves as human beings. God expects us to simply love one another because we are both we are all his children. And so we see these two great sins are emphasized throughout the Old Testaments and they are failings relative to the great two great commandments to love God and to love one another. Therefore it is clear that we cannot keep the commandments if we do not love God and if you do not love one another. Christ himself says when he was summarizing the commandments, he says um that generally they can be summarized as loving God as uh chiefly with everything and secondly loving your neighbor as you love yourself. 1 John 4 verse 20 and vers 21 says, "If someone says, "I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar, for he does not love his brother. For he whom does not love his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen." And therefore, we see this second aspect of the great commandment which turns into a great sin when we do not love our brothers and our sisters as we love ourselves. Amen. Amen. Thank you uh brother Raphael. And uh just from that sharing we are getting to understand that loving God and loving one another is very much tied and he just mentioned that we cannot keep this particular commandment if at all we do not love each other and we do not love God. And I want to just uh rule it to our brother Chris Pal in terms of what what is your understanding about this because they seem to be an unbreakable link between loving God and loving one another. Um John who was the eyewitness of the savior Jesus Christ um was the one who most experienced what the love of God is as it were in the context. And that's why this theme really he is the one who has written uh a lot about it in is in the in the gospel of John it says that no man has seen God at any time but Jesus Christ has declared him that is in Jesus was declared the la the the love the loving character of God to the human family and thus We see that had Christ not manifested or declared to us the love of God, we would have not been privileged to know and understand the full depths of that love. Thus, in receiving this love through Christ, it behooves us to pass it on. There are two analogies I can use. One is a circle and another is a circuit. Both of them have a sense of there's a connection all around but one is a geometrical static object while the other has electricity or current flowing through it. So that if at any point one part of the circuit is removed or is disconnected you find that the current or the electricity does not flow through the entire system. It is the same way with the love of God and love to men. We receive to give and not to keep. And that is why it is a law of life. Without give, receiving to give, we deny others the experience that we have received and hence it becomes a cast to us in not giving to others. Wow, that's very powerful in terms of when we receive the the love of God, it is for us to pass it on to pass on the love and that is the commandment of God and just moving from God showing us love and being love to us. We are also saying God is a God of justice and whenever there is an injustice that is happening this deeply hurts God. the that God gets deeply concerned about what what is this that is happening and I want to take us to the book of uh Psalms chapter 82 from verse one. God stands in the congregation of the mighty. He judges among the gods. How long will you judge unjustly and show partially to the wicked? Defend the poor and the fatherless. Do justice to the afflicted and needy. Deliver the poor and the needy. Free them from the hand of the wicked. They do not know, nor do they understand. They walk about in darkness. All the foundations of the earth are unstable. I said you are gods and all of you are children of the most high. But you shall die like men and fall like one of the princes. Arise, oh God, judge the earth, for you shall inherit all the nation. And you can see from this particular psalm that the psalmist is pleading for justice for the people of God. And I want to give it to our elder Elder Perry just to be able to unpack for us um in terms of justice. What does it mean to God? What does it mean to us? Elder. Uh thank you so much uh styrene. Um it is true from this text it gives connotation of the cry for justice both to the rulers, the earthly rulers. But when you look at it again, it also gives the connotation of God dispensing justice to the celestial rulers, the gods, what we call the gods behind corruptly uh earthly judges. That is because some people operate under the influence and the power of the rulers of prince of darkness. But God is dispensing calling for justice both uh to the earthly rulers those who are in charge. But I want to bring and this one gives clarity that God loves justice. I want to give an insight what I was uh uh something which I see here that God loves justice. What does it mean to love? You know when love justice when you go to the book of proverbs the book of proverbs chapter 1 verse 7 the Bible records the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. What is wisdom? Fools say in their hearts there is no God. So it means fools that is those who do not recognize God. Now when you go to the same chap book chapter 8 verse 13 it says the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Pride and arrogance and the evil way and the perverse mouth I hate. You can see that the love of God, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom or knowledge that is to know God and to give him his rightful place. Foolishness is not giving God his rightful place. And then we are told this fear of the Lord is to hate evil. So when God we are told that God's love justice, it means God hates evil. So for us, God is telling us to hate evil. For us to love God, to demonstrate true love of God, then we must demonstrate in our daily living the hate of evil. Meaning we must demonstrate love of God. The love of God is to hate evil. That is what we call fear of God. to uh to have wisdom to put God is in in his rightful place to make judgments which give glory and honor to him which does not dishonor him because it means if you do not dispense justice if you show favoritism it therefore mean that we are not demonstrating our love for God. We are showing injustice. We are showing we are inclining to evil which the Bible tells us that when we fear God when we love him then we must hate evil. And that one is shown in this text that God is admonishing the rulers and those who are in responsibility that they must and dispense love, justice and hate of wickedness and evil. I also see a case here that um uh that those who claim to love God must also show that they obey him. And obedience to God here shows justice. That when we obey God, there is no way we can love God when we love evil. There is no way when we can claim that we we love God and love justice when we love evil and wickedness. So the love of God must be demonstrated in our lives through justice. That is loving what is supposed to be okay with God. The fear of God and hate of evil. And that is why um Jesus said, "If you love me, you have to keep my commandments. And if you love me, also love one another." uh later formally in the book of Micah chapter 6 when Mah was asking then what should I do to demonstrate love for God? Should I come with rivers of oil? He was told that does not matter. What should I come with the thousands of rams and slaughter to God just to demonstrate my love and affection to him? He was told no. And then he even offered can I give my firstborn son because I think that would be the most precious gift one would give. He was still l you even that one does not matter. Then he then what is the he then the Bible say he assured you oh man what is required. What does the Lord require of thee to love mercy and justice? So I find that God has given us God has demonstrated his love for justice which should be demonstrated by us in hate of evil but walking in his path and demonstrating it this and extending it to one another where we need to demonstrate love where we need to give counel devoid of evil and uh wickedness that is what God truly requires of us you and me all the viewers all brothers and sisters God requires to love mercy and justice that is to hate evil and walk in his ways. Thank you. Such great unpacking from from Elder in terms of how do we demonstrate um justice in our everyday life and I want to take us to the book of Micah chapter 6 verse 8. It says, "He has shown you, oh man, what is good and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God." And just to roll it to our brother Raphael in terms of understanding what does this mean in our daily lives, in our communities, in our workplaces, just to be able to to demonstrate this particular um uh commandment and this particular aspect aspect of God that is called upon us. I think if we are to follow the prescription given in Micah 6 and verse 8 from the highest office in the land to the lowest I think then Kenya would be a very wonderful nation to live in. You know if resources are distributed with just with justice and with mercy you know if if we treat one another no the courts give justice and mercy. Uh not only mercy applies to those who are in the wrong you know when you are when when you receive um when you receive grace there is mercy. Um and also equally when you have been wronged uh the person who has been wronged uh justice cries out and so God is asking us to balance justice and mercy and in a in a in in a world where justice and mercy reign supreme for a fact God himself will be on the throne. God himself will be the ruler and that is the wonderful that is the recipe for peaceful and successful coexistence among men. And if we were to do this, we'll have we'll see peace and joy and love in our homes, peace and joy and loves in our churches. Peace, joy, and love in our communities. Amen. Amen. Wow. That's very profound. And just translating to us as believers being very intentional in our words, in our deeds towards showing justice, showing love to to each other. And just moving on to the Wednesday part and uh bringing over brother Chrisal to help us understand how exactly are we called um to establish justice. Yes. Um how are we called to establish justice? Um God is a God of love and I the every one who has come before me uh as in this discussion has really emphasized that that it is the nature of who he is and the fact that he is a god of love. He is also a god of judgment. We have seen the cry of judgment through the ages in the great controversy. And because he's a god of judgment, it precludes that precludes the fact that he is also a god of justice. For justice cannot justice exists in the context of judgment. Thus we see that God is the only one who finally will establish justice as it is his divine prerogative. But we see, you know, the fact that there is a cry through out the scope of scripture to the need to establish or see justice in the earth has shows that there has justice has not been rendered as it ought to have been. And thus we see that it is in his delay. There has been a sort of delay or reluctance on the part of God to establish justice. But is it a delay? Is it a reluctance? What I can refer to it is it is divine moral constraint in the context of what you've discussed before the the the the rules of engagement under the great controversy from the time of Abel and Cain when it is recorded where it is recorded in the book of Genesis 4:10 where the where we see that the voice of Abel's blood crith to God from the ground to the book of Revelation chapter 6 verse 9 to 10 where it is written that and he had when he had opened the fifth seal I saw under the altar the souls of them that was slain for the word of God and for the testimony which they held. And they cried with a loud voice, saying, "How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou judge, and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?" These are crying. These are cries from the beginning of the scriptural record right to the end of time before judgment. There is a cry throughout scripture, a continual unseasing cry for justice to be established. During Christ's ministry, Christ took up this cry for justice in Matthew 23 where he rebukes the Pharisees and the scribes for their excesses in in in in the religious um system that God had called them to uh to demonstrate as a as a covenant relational um uh worship experience with him which they had perverted to become a form rather than an experience. In Matthew chapter 23 23, Christ rebukes this form of worship, this false worship of God in these words, woe unto you uh scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you pay type of mint and anise and cumin, and you have committed you have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. This ye ought to have done and not leave the other. Remember in this scripture God Christ does not rebuke the paying of tithe on as it were. It was part of the command of God to the children of Israel in the Old Testament for that it was paying of tithe and offerings were part of the worship experience in giving back as a response to God the blessing that he had offered them. But it says that they had omitted they had as it were separated the ideas of the weightier matters of the law. What I have come to learn about this uh the idea that Christ puts across is that justice, mercy and faith and even love being the witty matters of the law, they are the principles that underly the law of God as it were. They are the thread that ties together the whole fabric of the law. These deal not only with the outward uh demonstrations, the outward demands of the law, but they are deal with the motives and intents of the earth. Therefore, we see in this Christ rebukes the excesses of the Pharisees which was demonstrated in separating justice and love in separating the principles of justice, love and mercy from the doing of the law. In fact, Christ goes on to rebuke them as whited sepalas. They are whited sepulas. They are beautiful on the outside, but within they have what? Dead men's bodies. Mhm. and bonds and thus we see that this became a form of godliness. Woe unto us if our religious experience becomes thus that it is only a form of godliness without the power without the full experience God wants us to have. So how is this justice to be established? In verse 26 of the same book of Matthew 23 we find our answer. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter that the outside may be clean also. Now God is calling us this day to reflect deeply. How are we within? Are the principles of justice? Are the principles of love, mercy and judgment established within our hearts? Have we seen? Have we experienced that? And if we have not, God is faithful to give us this principles to be the foundation of every motive, every intention. So that in the outward demonstration, all our our acts shall be guided by the principles of judgment, mercy, and faith. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. that there's a specific way that we are expected to to to show and establish justice and just to give it to our sister in terms of understanding how would it look like when we focus on matters of weight because um from just the the reading that we've been able to have and the unpacking from brother Chris Pal we've been able to understand that there are actually matters that have been put weight into as compared to what we think are weightier to God. There are weightier matters and these are the matters of the law, justice, mercy and faith. So our sister Reise just tell us how would it look like if we put our focus on the weightier matters as compared to other matters that we think could be weightier and they're not. As Chris Paul has beautifully explained is that the Pharisees were serious and meticulous Christians in the outward demonstration of keeping the law and yet we are saying that they did not do enough. They did not concentrate on the weightier matters and also as he said that Jesus was not telling them that they should not pay tithe or do other religious duties. Those were very important and critical. But he said they could have put more weight on this justice, mercy and faith. And this calls us for introspection because now we are looking at the Pharisees and saying they didn't do much. But if I'm thinking about myself and racist as Reist, what I'm saying is this. As I look at the Pharisees and I look myself, is there any difference? Because the question I'm asking in terms of justice, am I treating others fairly and standing against injustice? If I'm talking about mercy, am I compassionate and forgiving to others? If I'm talking about faith, do I trust God and obey his commandments in all aspects of my life? If I could put weight on these things, then the world will be a better place and our Christian experience would be enriched. Amen. Um, getting to understand who exactly is our neighbor when this commandment has been given unto us and we are expected to to to execute this particular commandment. But let us understand who exactly is our neighbor. Who should we be showing this love to? And I'll invite our sister Whitney just to be able to highlight that to us. Who is my neighbor? Many of times we see a neighbor as someone who is next door or maybe you're seated in church and you're saying my neighbor is someone seated next to me. Or whenever you leave, you know that person who is close to you is your neighbor. But Jesus comes and um tells us differently. So a story is told in the book of Luke chap 10 verse 25-37. And this the story goes I'll read from King James version. It says and behold a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him saying master what shall I do to inherit eternal life? You know when lawyer a certain lawyer stood up to test him. When lawyers stand to test you these are people who are well knowledgeable and they know and when they ask you of something most of the time they all have all evidence on paper ready to bring forth their their point of story. You know this lawyer wasn't just asking because he wanted to know the truth. He was testing Jesus. Like just some of us, we just like to seek knowledge, not to obey it, but to debate, looking for ways to limit our responsibilities. And he said, and Jesus answered, what is written in law, how readest thou, you know, instead of just giving a direct answer, he just he posted back the question to the lawyer. And the law being well read said and answer and he answering said, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself." And he said unto him, "Thou has answered right, this do, and thou shalt live." You know, laws don't like to to get direct answers and that's it. They go further, a next step. And so this layer went on and says, "But he willing to justify himself said unto Jesus, and who is my neighbor?" And this is where we want to dwell mostly. And Jesus answering said, So Jesus comes up and tells him a story. And he said, "A man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among thieves, which stripped him and his reignment, and hidden him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way. And when he saw him, he passed on by the side. I believe this priest maybe was um in a hurry to be in church to take responsibilities. Maybe he's the one who has the sermon of the day. So seeing someone there lying by the road helpless, he was like, "Let me go tell the word of God." And he's coming to church to preach about love your neighbor as you love yourself. We should be we should make steps not just speak the word but be doers of the word too. And then a second person came and likewise a levit when he was at the he was at the place came and looked on him and passed on the other side. You know the priest did not even look at this man to begin with but the lev when he came he looked but passed on the other side. Then maybe he thought this man the way he was beaten up. He thought um because he has blood all over he's unclean and will um will make me unclean for the surface that I have to to deliver the church. And so he passed by but a certain Samaritan as it journeyied came where he was and when he saw him he had compassion on it. So ironical, you know, the Jews and the Samaritans are not terms by then. And um it was a religious uh and also racist maybe in this world today. And this is the person who saw the guy the saw the man laying there and had compassion on him. And he went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to in and took care of him. And on the on the moral when he departed, he took out two piece and gave them to the host, and said unto him, take care of him, and whosoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. You know Jesus when we when we see the story of this Samaritan Jesus himself is the ultimate Samaritan in our lives today. He stepped out into the world to save us. He didn't just help us from a distance. You know he could have just said that may my people be saved from heaven. But he came down himself and attended to us in our wounds. He became one of us. He carried our burdens. Pay the price for her healing. And you know he just didn't go back like that. Just a Samaritan he he came and said I will be back and if there's anything that you use extra I will pay. So Jesus also promised us that he will return and he will come for us. To conclude Jesus poses a question back to the lawyer. Which now of these three thinkst thou was neighbor unto thee him that fell among the thieves? You know, and and and the lawyer being as he is, he just said the the good Samaritan was the was the was the one who acted as a neighbor and he said, "He that showed mercy on him." And Jesus said unto him, "Go and do likewise." You know, so this story, this story is not just a story. It is not just a nice story for us. It is a call for action. Being a good Samaritan means standing against injustice. healing the oppressed, helping the oppressed, and showing mercy where others ignore suffering. It means choosing love over over hate and over apathy. So, in light of the prophet's cry for mercy, this passage reminds us that our faith is measured out is not measured out by words, but by love. We must ask ourself, who is wounded and left by the roadside in our world today. Are we like the priest and the Levite, too busy and and too fearful to help? Or will we be like the good Samaritan cross the barriers of religion, racism and social status just to show mercy to one another? Let's ponder on this question and act and ask ourself who is our neighbor. Amen. Amen. Beautiful. Um just to understand that our neighbor is the person who is in need. a person who needs us to extend the love, to extend the justice that uh we we are called to to to to extend. And um as we look into that and just getting from our our sister Whitney in terms of Jesus being the ultimate uh Samaritan and him just coming um to us in terms of from heaven. He came down just to be able to save us um from our sins. and him throughout his life, throughout his ministry, throughout the miracles that he was able to do, we are seeing the love, the love of God and the justice of God. And maybe just to pose a question to elder in terms of how can we in our small little ways uh be able to to extend that love for us we cannot probably perform that major miracle that is needed uh but in our small ways still be miraculous. Uh thank you so much. Uh I want to thank my sister for elaborating this point very well because the question of who is my neighbor has been a long-term question and bothers people am I my brother's keeper the question which was posed to Kane that uh where is your brother and he asked posed the question back to God my brother's keeper and this question continues to ring a bell and truly we are our brothers and sisters keepers us from the teachings and from the elaboration which has been given and from the story of the good Samaritan. We see this one truly as one and Jesus demonstrated it also by living his glory uh the uh uh glory and coming down to die for you and me to you and me. Now what can we do to demonstrate this even if it is in a small way? You know uh the book of John 13:35 Jesus said all will know that you are my disciples if you love if you have love for one another. That just by doing whatever we are able to do to the betterment of another person that demonstrates love. It doesn't mean to be a very big thing and a very peculiar thing but we should continue to do good. Paul also enumerated in the book of Galatians uh chapter 6:9 Paul says that let us not grow weary while doing good for in due season we shall reap if we do not lose heart. So we are admonished to continue doing whatever we do. I bring a story. It is a poem which is highly known. It is called it is a uh first they came. That is the title of that uh poem by Martin Nimla who was um a very active preacher. But first of all by around 1920 he was very much a pro pronaz Nazi regime. But when Hitler came to power he became his fiercest critic. And this poem goes that first they came for the communists and I did not speak out because I was not a communist. Then they came for the socialists and I did not speak out because I was not a socialist. Then they came for the trade unionists and I did not speak out because I was not a trade unionist. Then they came for the Jews and I did not speak out because I was not a Jew. Then they came for me and then and there was no one left to speak out for me. People have used it to bring other versions. They came for journalists and I did not speak because I was not a journalist. And finally they came for me and no one was there for me. This uh this um poem became very profound and I find it relevant in dealing with who is my neighbor. Many of times we only think of my neighbor as my tribes man. Where there is problem of tribalism we think we think my neighbor or my brother is my tribes man. Where the problem is race we think now my brother and my neighbor is my fellow my my my my racemate. But this thing goes down until clan county. It goes down until you go to constituency down down up to the family until you reach the person you are born with from the same mother. But this one tells us that a neighbor is somebody who is really in need where something somebody to whom we can extend the love of Christ that is truly a neighbor. It can be through sharing of the word of God which you and I may be bestowed with and the person just needs that that is truly somebody who is a neighbor who to whom we may show the love of Christ. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Wow. such uh profound learnings and uh takings in terms of um who is our neighbor and what is expected of us in terms of us being our brother's keepers and showing concern for their well-being as our ultimate way of showing love to each other to one another. Such a beautiful lesson. And as we wind up on it, maybe uh the panel could just take less than a minute just to give us the the final takeaways um um from this particular discuss discussion today. We'll start with Elder back to you. Uh thank you so much. uh my my my my take something which has given me a lot of joy is Psalm 146 verse 7 to to 9 and it says who executes justice for the oppressed who gives food to the hungry. The Lord gives freedom to the prisoners. The Lord opens the eyes of the blind. The Lord raises those who are bowed down. The Lord loves the righteous. Um, the Lord watches over the strangers. He relieves the fatherless and widows, but the ways of the wicked it turns upside down. This text, my brother and sister, gives a profound uh encouragement to us that the Lord gives freedom to the prisoners. He gives food to the hungry. The Lord opens the eyes of the blind. But he also it also concludes that the plans of the wicked it turns upside down. I realize that it is good to cast our lot on the side of the Lord so that whatever it is you and I are going through the Lord is able to provide food is able to open our eyes to the realities of life. He's not only concerned about other uh religious, political. He's also concerned about your daily life and my daily life and the things we need. May we cast our lot on the side of the Lord. Amen. Amen. I'm I'm learning that loving God and others is inseparable because love for God transform us as human beings and we love truly with our hearts. Let's be compassionate to one another. The Bible tells us in Matthew 25:40, "And the king shall answer and say unto them, verily and say unto you, in as much as you do it unto one of the least of these brethren, he have done it unto me." Let's not um differentiate one another according to race, religion or anything but let's show compassion to everyone just as much as let's not see that they are the least of the people and uh let's be ready to show love to everyone and be good neighbors. I take is uh in 1 John 3:16. By this we know love because he laid down his life for us. And we also ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. God is calling us this day. is calling upon you and me to pass on the love and justice to others because we are we are to be partakers and givers of this experience. Now it behooves us therefore to look at practical ways and means through which we can because love and justice as we are seeing in scripture are intensely practical. They are not just theoretical but they are the weightier matters of the law. They are things that we are to continually think upon. They are things that we are to continually uh find new ways and means of demonstrating. May God help us in Jesus name. Amen. Indeed. I think the lesson is uh uh this particular week has been very practical in that it is calling us to to see that the opposite of love isn't hate but rather it is self when we are self when we think only about ourselves and and those whom we consider to be part of ourselves then we fall out of the love of God and so it's telling us that we cannot say that we love God whom we have not seen yet there is a brother there is a sister whom whom you have seen and you keep seeing and you have full knowledge that they are in need and you do nothing about. True religion is practical. Love as they say is a verb. And it is by doing by doing what? By executing justice and showing mercy. And it is my prayer and my desire that we be doers and we found having the three greatest commandments in obedience. Amen. Amen. our sister. This week's lesson has just been repeat and expand just like the way we study Bible prophecy. And it's a call for action. So me, I and you, what are we going to do to show that we love God and we love our neighbors because it's a call for action. And loving God means prioritizing him above everything else. obeying his commandments, worshiping him in truth and in spirit, and loving others. What does that mean? Helping the poor and the needy, forgiving and showing mercy, and treating others justly. That is what the Lord is calling us to do. And I pray that he might find space in our hearts that these words that has spoken to us may be actions in our lives. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, uh, Sister Reise. And um as we conclude on this uh particular lesson, just to emphasize on how love and justice are way connected in terms of us being called out to love, in terms of us being called out to sacrifice in a way to show love to each other, to our neighbors so that we can continue on this particular race and getting to the kingdom of God. So I welcome you all just uh as we uh finalize on this particular quarter in terms of um the lesson next week. Uh love is the fulfillment of the law. Um wanting to wish you a wonderful Sabbath and um a good day. Our heavenly master, uh we thank you for this day that you've given unto us. We thank you for this uh opportunity and chance that you've given us to go through this particular discussion and understanding what it means to love, what it means to be just. Oh God, we pray that in our different ways. Oh Lord, in our different capacities, oh God, may you give us the grace uh that we need to to show love, to show justice to each and everyone around us. King of glory. May you enable us to to take this up and put it in our actions in our day to day lives. Oh God, we thank you and we bless you for your word. We thank you and we bless you for your people, oh God. And we pray trusting and believing that you're going to be with us that you're going to hold our hands in each and every step of our way in the mighty name of Jesus. We pray trusting and believing. Amen. Amen. [Music] 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[0.0s] [Music]
[72.6s] Good morning and a happy Sabbath to you
[75.9s] uh from wherever you're watching us
[77.5s] from. We are so glad to have you as part
[80.6s] of this discussion today. And um I'll be
[84.7s] Irene Jenda just being part of the panel
[88.2s] that will be uh diving into this
[90.6s] particular lesson of the day which is
[92.9s] love and justice the two greatest
[96.4s] commandments. And uh just before we
[98.8s] start uh we could have a word of prayer
[101.8s] from our brother Rafael uh just to
[105.0s] uplift us. All right let's believe and
[108.0s] pray. Our kind and loving father and
[110.3s] master, we come once again dear lord
[113.9s] asking and seeking that your spirit may
[115.8s] be with us and guide us dear lord as we
[118.2s] lead out in this discussion and even as
[120.2s] we consider these weightier matters. May
[122.3s] this be our experience we pray and
[124.0s] believe. Amen.
[126.1s] I will ask our panelists just to be able
[129.0s] to introduce uh themselves and we'll go
[132.5s] to the very end uh starting with our
[134.8s] elder. I greet you all in Jesus name.
[138.2s] Hallelujah. Amen. Thank you so much. I'm
[141.0s] Elder Engine
[142.5s] Pereoya, member of this church. Welcome.
[147.3s] Happy Sabbath. I'm Agnes Whitney and
[149.8s] glad to be
[151.2s] here. Praise the Lord. I'm Chris Beera.
[155.8s] I'm going to talk about called to
[158.5s] establish justice.
[160.9s] Happy Sabbath. My name is Enongo Rafa.
[163.0s] It's a pleasure to be with you this
[164.2s] Sabbath day as we consider the love of
[166.1s] God.
[167.6s] Praise
[168.8s] God. It's a pleasure to be here to
[171.9s] always have and my name is Reis Akini
[175.3s] and I'm going to be presenting the two
[177.8s] greatest
[179.6s] commandments. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[183.5s] Um, love and justice. Um, these are the
[187.8s] two greatest commandments. And I would
[190.5s] like to take us to the Bible text um for
[194.2s] this particular lesson. And I'll be
[197.1s] reading from the book of 1 John
[200.7s] 4:20. And it says, "If someone says, I
[205.4s] love God and hates his brother, he is a
[209.3s] liar. For who for he who does not love
[213.2s] his
[214.4s] brother whom he has seen, how can he
[217.6s] love God whom he has not seen." And this
[221.9s] particular uh Bible text just resonates
[225.4s] with us and resonates with me at a
[228.0s] personal level. If I claim not to love
[231.1s] any any any person that is close to me,
[234.9s] how can I love someone who's very far
[238.2s] away? And we can see that from the
[241.4s] previous lessons, we've been able to see
[244.0s] that God is a God of love. God is a God
[247.8s] of justice. And God loves justice. And
[251.2s] us for us as his children, it means when
[255.4s] we love God, then we should be loving
[258.1s] justice. And anything that is happening
[260.6s] to our brethren in terms of they're
[263.3s] facing any kind of
[265.9s] um uh any kind of uncertainity or
[270.7s] circumstances that are quite
[274.0s] um oppressive to them then it should be
[277.4s] a matter of concern to us. It should be
[281.1s] something that disturbs us because we
[283.9s] are lovers of justice and we do love
[287.1s] God.
[288.6s] And whenever any one of us is facing or
[291.8s] going through such a hard time for us it
[294.2s] should be a matter of what can we do
[296.5s] what step what steps should we take in
[299.0s] order to bring our brother and sister
[301.8s] out of such kind of a circumstance and
[305.9s] um just as we go through that it then
[309.9s] translates to we have been given these
[313.1s] particular commandments by God and it is
[315.6s] for us to be able to follow them and I
[318.1s] would like to just pose it to our sister
[320.2s] Reise in terms of sharing with us what
[323.4s] are these greatest commandments and what
[326.8s] are we required to do as
[331.2s] Christians. Thank you Irene and thank
[333.5s] you the panel and our brothers and
[335.4s] sisters. This morning we are going to
[337.8s] talk about these the two greatest
[340.2s] commandments and we are told
[342.9s] that if we keep all these then keeping
[345.8s] the other commandments will not be a
[347.5s] challenge and it is love. And so the
[351.7s] question that we are asking ourselves
[353.1s] when you are being told about love what
[355.4s] is that? Because in our society there
[357.7s] are so many connotations of love and
[359.8s] it's a varied spectrum. You really never
[362.3s] know where you are standing. But this
[364.2s] morning, we want to know what the word
[365.7s] of God is saying. And we see that love
[369.4s] often calls for sacrifice because it
[372.6s] inherently involves putting another
[375.0s] person's needs and well-being before
[378.0s] your
[378.8s] own. Meaning, you may need to give up
[382.0s] something, whether it be time, personal
[385.2s] desires, or even your own comfort to
[388.1s] support the person you love.
[390.5s] Essentially, true love requires a
[393.1s] willingness to make sacrifices for the
[396.0s] greater good of the
[398.2s] relationship. Love calls for
[402.0s] selflessness, compromise, and
[404.3s] unconditional giving. And in this light,
[407.4s] I don't know where self love would fall
[410.2s] at. But let us see what the lesson has
[412.5s] to tell us. And for us to demonstrate
[415.7s] this love, we have two options. We love
[419.3s] God and we love our
[421.7s] neighbor. How do we go about loving our
[425.2s] neighbor? Because Matthew continues to
[427.8s] remind us that love the Lord your God
[430.9s] with all your heart, with all your soul,
[433.8s] and with all your mind. What does that
[436.2s] mean? It means that we should pro
[439.4s] prioritize God over wealth. Because we
[443.2s] can see this from the story of the rich
[446.2s] young ruler who said that he had kept
[448.8s] the commandments from the beginning but
[451.1s] he was told that one thing thou
[454.8s] lackest. And we see that the key lesson
[457.4s] is that loving God means putting him
[459.5s] first over money, career, relationships
[463.7s] or any personal desires.
[467.8s] And for us Adventist, it means that a
[470.9s] business owner closes their shop on the
[473.7s] Sabbath despite losing money because
[476.6s] they choose to honor God. And that we
[479.1s] can get from Exodus
[481.6s] 28-11. And a young man or woman
[485.0s] described declines a job that requires
[487.9s] dishonesty or corruption, choosing
[490.3s] integrity over financial gain. And that
[493.0s] is what Matthew 6:33 continues to remind
[496.0s] us because we are supposed to seek the
[498.5s] kingdom of God and all his righteousness
[501.0s] and all these things shall be added unto
[503.0s] us. So as a Christian my question is are
[507.0s] the things in my life complete compete
[511.2s] with the love of God? Then also loving
[514.4s] God means obeying God's commandments.
[518.5s] Because John 14:15 reminds me, if you
[521.9s] love me, keep my
[524.5s] commandments. So love of God is not just
[527.6s] feelings. It is expressed through
[529.9s] obedience of his
[532.3s] commandments. For
[534.0s] example, a Christian refuses to gossip
[537.2s] in the workplace, choosing instead to
[540.2s] speak positively. And that is a lesson
[543.1s] we learn from Ephesians
[546.1s] 4:29. And for reflection, if I want to
[549.6s] know if I'm really keeping the
[551.2s] commandments of God, is do I daily
[555.9s] reflect Christ and the love of God in my
[559.0s] cho choices and in my actions in my
[562.4s] daytoday life. Amen. And we are not only
[565.4s] encouraged to love God, but also to love
[570.1s] my neighbor.
[571.9s] And that's why Matthew 22 22:39 is
[575.4s] reminding me, love your neighbor as you
[578.8s] love
[579.7s] yourself. And loving your neighbor is
[582.6s] just is more than just being nice. It
[586.2s] includes acting justly, showing mercy,
[590.6s] and serving others selflessly.
[594.8s] And for me as a Christian and for you as
[597.4s] a Christian, the Lord is calling us that
[600.3s] we should show this love to our ne our
[604.7s] family, our friends and those people who
[606.7s] live around us. And as the me the memory
[609.6s] text is reminding us that we cannot
[612.5s] claim to love God whom we have not seen
[615.4s] and not love our neighbor or the people
[617.9s] who are around us whom we see. We might
[620.7s] think they are annoying. They are not
[622.4s] lovable. They are not focused. But that
[624.8s] is our own opinion. The word of God has
[627.6s] a difference instruction for us. And so
[630.3s] we can love them through caring for the
[633.6s] poor and the needy because the rich
[637.4s] young ruler was advised in Matthew
[640.4s] 19:21. Sell what you have and give to
[643.4s] the poor and you will have treasure in
[646.3s] heaven.
[647.7s] Loving others means helping the less
[649.9s] fortunate instead of only concentrating
[653.7s] or focusing on personal gain. As
[657.6s] Christians and as members in the family
[659.4s] of God, we can donate food and clothes
[662.9s] to our struggling neighbors. Instead of
[666.6s] spending extra money on luxuries and in
[670.6s] our professions like the one that we
[672.8s] have mostly the doctors you can help in
[675.5s] free medical camps and whatever prof
[678.4s] profession you are in you know how you
[680.3s] can help your
[681.5s] society in for free without being paid
[685.2s] for the service you are given. The other
[688.7s] one is forgiving and showing mercy. We
[692.7s] are reminded in Matthew
[695.4s] 6:14-15, for if you forgive others their
[698.4s] trespasses, your heavenly father will
[701.4s] also forgive you. Loving others means
[704.7s] forgiving those who hurt us instead of
[707.5s] holding
[709.6s] grudges. And you see, like most of us
[712.2s] Christians, we have a standard of which
[714.4s] we expect people to live by. But those
[716.6s] are our own standards. They're not God's
[718.5s] standards. And most of the time when
[720.5s] people do us wrong, we say that I will I
[723.4s] will forgive and not forget. But it is
[725.8s] not like that is the thing. You tell
[728.1s] this story I will live to tell my
[730.3s] grandchildren. So the Lord is reminding
[732.6s] us that it is about the will. Am I
[735.3s] willing to forgive? Can I forgive a
[738.8s] friend, a sister, a relative who has
[742.0s] betrayed me and not seek
[745.6s] revenge? Because we are told that love
[749.6s] covers a multitude of sins. And this can
[753.1s] sometimes be seen in the relationship
[755.3s] between parents and children. Most
[757.4s] parents would cover their children at
[760.1s] all cost even if the children are wrong.
[763.0s] And that is the same love we should
[765.0s] extend to our neighbors. So as
[767.4s] Christians, am I holding grudges in my
[770.2s] heart? Yeah. And the other one is about
[773.0s] treating others fairly and justly. Give
[776.2s] to Caesar what is Caesars and to God
[779.0s] what is God's. Loving others means
[782.2s] acting with integrity whether in
[784.4s] business, government or personal
[787.8s] relationships. So am I loving God?
[791.4s] Because Leviticus 19:15 reminds me, do
[794.6s] not pervert justice. Do not show
[796.8s] partiality to the poor or favoritism to
[799.3s] the great. But judge your neighbor
[802.1s] fairly. So am I being fair and just?
[805.8s] Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Indeed. Uh
[809.8s] Sister Reinis, that's a very good take
[812.6s] through in terms of the practical ways
[815.3s] uh in which we can show love and justice
[818.2s] to one another in our different setups
[821.5s] in our communities, in our workplaces,
[824.5s] in our different capacities.
[827.1s] And mine will be just to remind us
[830.9s] viewers in terms of we are understanding
[833.5s] that love is self selfless. Love is
[837.3s] sacrificial. You need to sacrifice
[839.8s] something in order to to show this
[841.8s] particular love. I mean there's always
[843.8s] an element of sacrifice that is found
[846.4s] there. And my question will be in our
[850.7s] different areas of life. Are there areas
[854.3s] are there items that we are clinging on
[856.6s] to that we believe that this could
[860.0s] actually hinder me from getting eternal
[862.2s] life? This could actually hinder me from
[865.4s] um getting to the kingdom of God. So let
[868.9s] us just reflect on that and get to
[871.4s] understand what are some of these
[873.2s] things, what are some of these areas
[875.4s] that we are clinging into that could
[877.9s] actually hinder us. And I will I would
[881.4s] move on to our brother Raphael. Um we've
[885.2s] just been able to to see and understand
[887.9s] that God is love, God is justice, and he
[892.9s] has given us two greatest commandments.
[895.7s] And in understanding the two greatest
[898.5s] commandments, it means that there are
[901.0s] two greatest sins. And we could just uh
[906.1s] dive into that and understand what are
[908.6s] these two greatest sins. Indeed. Uh
[912.0s] Monday calls to our attention two
[914.7s] greatest sins. We've seen that indeed uh
[918.2s] the greatest commandment is to love God
[920.9s] first and foremost and secondly to love
[923.8s] others as we love ourselves. To love
[926.2s] ourselves also therefore is goes without
[928.6s] saying that we should love ourselves and
[930.7s] with the similar strength with which we
[932.4s] love ourselves and those whom we
[934.2s] consider to be part of ourselves we
[935.9s] should equally love others. Now um we
[939.2s] are called to consider Psalms 135 13-19
[943.4s] and I'm reading from the King James
[944.7s] version. It says, "Thy name, O Lord,
[947.0s] endureth forever, and thy memorial, O
[949.7s] Lord, throughout all generations." David
[952.2s] is praising God and is saying, "For the
[953.9s] Lord will judge his people, and he will
[955.8s] repent himself concerning his servants."
[958.6s] Continues and says, "The idols of the
[960.3s] heathen are silver and gold, the work of
[963.2s] men's
[964.7s] hands. They have mouths, but they speak
[967.8s] not. They have eyes, eyes they have, but
[970.6s] they see not. They have ears, but they
[972.1s] hear not. Neither is there any breath in
[974.6s] their mouths. They that make them are
[976.8s] like unto them. So is everyone that
[979.0s] trusts in them. Bless the Lord, oh house
[981.2s] of Israel. Bless the Lord, oh house of
[984.1s] Aaron. This particular text calls us uh
[988.3s] to reflect on one common sin that was
[992.3s] almost um the the the one thing that God
[996.3s] belabored amongst the Israelites in the
[999.0s] Old Testament and that was the sin of
[1001.0s] idolatry. Now the children of Israel
[1003.4s] were always uh in comparing themselves
[1006.6s] with the way they worship with the
[1008.2s] nations that surrounded them that
[1009.5s] worshiped idols. They had in them that
[1011.8s] desire to worship God through idols to
[1014.8s] the extent that even uh in the in the
[1016.9s] second commandment God enshrines there a
[1019.6s] commandment telling them that they shall
[1021.4s] not make an image of anything. You know
[1024.9s] there could be sometimes in this world
[1028.0s] you could say you're worshiping God but
[1030.0s] through the channel of this idol through
[1031.9s] the channel of this image through the
[1033.5s] channel of this but God in the second
[1035.3s] commandment explicitly says no to any
[1038.6s] form of such worship. And so idol
[1040.9s] worship is something that God looks down
[1044.2s] upon. is something that God does not
[1046.3s] look favorably upon because God, our God
[1049.0s] is a jealous God and he will not share
[1050.9s] his glory nor his worship through
[1053.4s] proxies or through any other images. And
[1056.6s] so idol worship is something that uh God
[1059.8s] was telling the children of Israel and
[1061.3s] still tells us today to put aside. The
[1064.9s] question then we ask ourselves is what
[1066.4s] is an idol? An adult is anything that we
[1069.2s] have erected in our lives either in
[1073.1s] place of God or as our God, you know.
[1077.0s] And so uh this this calls us to
[1081.4s] retrospect uh to introspect and and to
[1083.8s] also look back and ask ourselves where
[1086.2s] do we put our greatest energies? Where
[1088.7s] do we put um uh our our interests in?
[1092.7s] Where in essence are we are we sowing?
[1096.3s] Where have we invested our riches? As
[1097.8s] the Bible says, is it in heaven or is it
[1100.2s] here on earth? Do we have
[1102.0s] idols in our lives? Or are we truly
[1105.0s] worshiping God? Continues and says uh
[1107.8s] quoting from the book of Deuteronomy
[1109.1s] chapter 6 and verse 5, which reinforces
[1111.0s] that we should love the Lord our God
[1113.1s] with everything with all that entails
[1115.4s] our being. The importance of loving God
[1117.5s] above all else.
[1119.7s] Secondly, we are called to consider a
[1121.8s] second aspect of another great sin
[1125.1s] before the eyes of God is found in the
[1127.0s] book of Zechariah chapter 7 verse 9 to
[1130.6s] 12. The Bible records and says, "Thus
[1133.5s] speaketh the Lord of hosts, saying,
[1135.6s] execute true judgment, show mercy and
[1138.9s] compassions every man to his brother."
[1141.9s] To execute true judgment and to show
[1144.3s] mercy and compassions every man to his
[1146.7s] brother. Verse 10 says, "And oppress not
[1149.4s] the widow, nor the fatherless, the
[1151.8s] stranger, nor the poor, and let none of
[1154.4s] the none let none of you imagine evil
[1156.9s] against his brother in your heart, but
[1159.7s] they refused to hearken and pulled away
[1161.6s] the shoulder and stopped their ears that
[1163.9s] they should not hear." Verse 12
[1165.7s] continues and says, "Yeah, they made
[1167.1s] their hearts as Adam and Stone lest they
[1170.2s] should hear the law and the words which
[1172.1s] the Lord of hosts had sent in his spirit
[1175.1s] by the former prophets. Therefore came a
[1177.5s] great wrath from the Lord of hosts. The
[1180.8s] lesson author wants us to reflect on
[1183.0s] these two great sins. One the sin of and
[1187.0s] and and of of placing idols any other
[1190.7s] thing that takes the the place of God
[1193.1s] and ultimately almost mirroring the
[1195.8s] second greatest uh commandment and and
[1199.3s] and and the greatest thing that God
[1201.2s] loves that is to love one another.
[1203.9s] Similarly, it speaks uh the Bible speaks
[1206.7s] to us and tells us that we have a
[1209.6s] responsibility to take care of the less
[1212.2s] fortunate in society. We have a
[1214.5s] responsibility to love one another. That
[1217.0s] it is a commandment. And anytime we move
[1219.7s] away from it, then we commit one of the
[1223.0s] two greatest sins. And that is when we
[1226.4s] ex when we do not execute true judgment,
[1229.3s] when we do not show mercy and
[1231.2s] compassions. When we oppress the widows,
[1233.9s] you know, and the fatherless, the
[1235.7s] orphans, the strangers because they are
[1238.2s] not from from from our tribe or they
[1241.4s] they don't they're not from our church.
[1243.5s] They're not from our whatever ism or
[1246.9s] schism that we have used to separate and
[1248.9s] to demarcate our ourselves as human
[1251.0s] beings. God expects us to simply love
[1254.0s] one another because we are both we are
[1256.6s] all his children. And so we see these
[1260.0s] two great sins are emphasized throughout
[1261.7s] the Old Testaments and they are failings
[1264.4s] relative to the great two great
[1267.2s] commandments to love God and to love one
[1270.0s] another. Therefore it is clear that we
[1273.2s] cannot keep the commandments if we do
[1275.4s] not love God and if you do not love one
[1277.5s] another. Christ himself says when he was
[1280.2s] summarizing the commandments, he says um
[1283.2s] that generally they can be summarized as
[1286.4s] loving God as uh chiefly with everything
[1291.0s] and secondly loving your neighbor as you
[1293.5s] love yourself. 1 John 4 verse 20 and
[1296.6s] vers 21 says, "If someone says, "I love
[1299.0s] God and hates his brother, he is a liar,
[1302.2s] for he does not love his brother. For he
[1305.0s] whom does not love his brother whom he
[1306.9s] has seen, how can he love God whom he
[1309.6s] has not seen." And therefore, we see
[1312.3s] this second aspect of the great
[1314.8s] commandment which turns into a great sin
[1317.8s] when we do not love our brothers and our
[1319.9s] sisters as we love ourselves.
[1323.1s] Amen. Amen. Thank you uh brother
[1325.8s] Raphael. And uh just from that sharing
[1328.8s] we are getting to understand
[1331.7s] that loving God and loving one another
[1335.8s] is very much tied and he just mentioned
[1339.6s] that we cannot keep this particular
[1342.3s] commandment if at all we do not love
[1344.6s] each other and we do not love God. And I
[1347.5s] want to just uh rule it to our brother
[1349.5s] Chris Pal in terms of what what is your
[1352.6s] understanding about this because they
[1354.7s] seem to be an unbreakable link between
[1357.7s] loving God and loving one another. Um
[1361.8s] John who was the
[1363.7s] eyewitness of the savior Jesus Christ
[1369.1s] um was the one who most experienced what
[1372.3s] the love of God is as it were in the
[1375.0s] context. And that's why this theme
[1377.2s] really he is the one who has written uh
[1380.6s] a lot about it in is in the in the
[1385.2s] gospel of John it says that no man has
[1387.1s] seen God at any time but Jesus
[1391.8s] Christ has declared him that is in Jesus
[1396.8s] was declared the la the the love the
[1401.0s] loving character of God to the human
[1403.4s] family and thus We see that had Christ
[1407.9s] not manifested or declared to us the
[1412.2s] love of God, we would have not been
[1415.9s] privileged to know and understand the
[1418.9s] full depths of that love. Thus, in
[1423.4s] receiving this love through Christ, it
[1426.2s] behooves us to pass it on. There are two
[1429.9s] analogies I can use. One is a circle and
[1432.2s] another is a circuit. Both of them have
[1435.4s] a sense of there's a connection all
[1438.1s] around but one is a geometrical static
[1442.4s] object while the other has electricity
[1445.8s] or current flowing through it. So that
[1448.2s] if at any point one part of the circuit
[1452.2s] is removed or is disconnected you find
[1455.1s] that the current or the electricity does
[1457.7s] not flow through the entire system. It
[1460.6s] is the same way with the love of God and
[1463.0s] love to men. We receive to give and not
[1467.4s] to keep. And that is why it is a law of
[1470.7s] life. Without give, receiving to give,
[1474.6s] we deny others the experience that we
[1477.8s] have received and hence it becomes a
[1480.7s] cast to us in not giving to others. Wow,
[1484.6s] that's very powerful in terms of when we
[1488.2s] receive the the love of God, it is for
[1490.8s] us to pass it on to pass on the love and
[1494.0s] that is the commandment of God and just
[1497.5s] moving from God showing us love and
[1500.6s] being love to us. We are also saying God
[1503.8s] is a God of justice and whenever there
[1506.3s] is an injustice that is happening this
[1508.9s] deeply hurts God. the that God gets
[1512.2s] deeply concerned about what what is this
[1515.3s] that is happening and I want to take us
[1517.5s] to the book of uh Psalms chapter 82 from
[1521.2s] verse one. God stands in the
[1523.6s] congregation of the mighty. He judges
[1526.5s] among the gods. How long will you judge
[1529.9s] unjustly and show partially to the
[1532.8s] wicked? Defend the poor and the
[1535.4s] fatherless. Do justice to the afflicted
[1538.2s] and needy. Deliver the poor and the
[1541.4s] needy. Free them from the hand of the
[1544.8s] wicked. They do not know, nor do they
[1547.5s] understand. They walk about in darkness.
[1550.2s] All the foundations of the earth are
[1551.8s] unstable. I said you are gods and all of
[1555.8s] you are children of the most high. But
[1558.4s] you shall die like men and fall like one
[1560.7s] of the princes. Arise, oh
[1563.2s] God, judge the earth, for you shall
[1566.5s] inherit all the nation. And you can see
[1569.3s] from this particular psalm that the
[1571.8s] psalmist is pleading for justice for the
[1574.6s] people of God. And I want to give it to
[1577.4s] our elder Elder Perry just to be able to
[1580.6s] unpack for us um in terms of justice.
[1584.4s] What does it mean to God? What does it
[1586.7s] mean to us? Elder.
[1591.0s] Uh thank you so much uh
[1593.9s] styrene. Um it is true from this text it
[1597.8s] gives
[1598.8s] connotation of the cry for
[1602.5s] justice both to the rulers, the earthly
[1605.4s] rulers. But when you look at it again,
[1608.1s] it also gives the connotation of God
[1610.8s] dispensing justice to the celestial
[1613.2s] rulers, the gods, what we call the gods
[1616.8s] behind corruptly uh earthly judges. That
[1620.4s] is because some people operate under the
[1623.6s] influence and the power of the rulers of
[1626.7s] prince of darkness. But God is
[1629.3s] dispensing calling for
[1631.3s] justice both
[1634.8s] uh to the earthly rulers those who are
[1637.0s] in charge. But I want to bring and this
[1640.0s] one gives clarity that God loves
[1643.2s] justice. I want
[1645.4s] to give an insight what I was uh uh
[1648.5s] something which I see here that God
[1651.0s] loves justice. What does it mean to
[1653.1s] love? You know when love justice when
[1656.2s] you go to the book of
[1657.6s] proverbs the book of proverbs chapter
[1661.0s] 1 verse 7 the Bible records the fear of
[1666.5s] the Lord is the beginning of knowledge
[1670.1s] but fools despise wisdom and
[1674.2s] instruction. Fools despise wisdom and
[1677.9s] instruction. What is wisdom? Fools say
[1680.5s] in their hearts there is no God. So it
[1683.9s] means fools that is those who do not
[1687.5s] recognize God. Now when you go to the
[1691.1s] same chap book chapter 8 verse 13 it
[1695.4s] says the fear of the Lord is to hate
[1699.2s] evil. The fear of the Lord is to hate
[1702.2s] evil. Pride and arrogance and the evil
[1706.3s] way and the perverse mouth I hate. You
[1711.0s] can see that the love of
[1713.7s] God, the fear of the Lord is the
[1716.6s] beginning of wisdom or knowledge that is
[1718.7s] to know God and to give him his rightful
[1721.7s] place. Foolishness is not giving God his
[1724.9s] rightful place. And then we are told
[1727.0s] this fear of the Lord is to hate evil.
[1731.0s] So when God we are told that God's love
[1733.8s] justice, it means God hates evil. So for
[1737.8s] us, God is telling us to hate evil. For
[1740.9s] us to love God, to demonstrate true love
[1743.9s] of God, then we must demonstrate in our
[1747.0s] daily living the hate of evil. Meaning
[1750.4s] we must demonstrate love of God. The
[1753.4s] love of God is to hate evil. That is
[1755.8s] what we call fear of God. to uh to have
[1759.2s] wisdom to put God is in in his rightful
[1762.2s] place to make judgments which give glory
[1766.1s] and honor to him which does not dishonor
[1768.6s] him because it means if you do not
[1771.4s] dispense justice if you show favoritism
[1775.5s] it therefore mean that we are not
[1779.6s] demonstrating our love for God. We are
[1783.0s] showing injustice. We are showing we are
[1786.4s] inclining to evil which the Bible tells
[1789.1s] us that when we fear God when we love
[1791.4s] him then we must hate evil. And that one
[1795.7s] is shown in this text that God is
[1798.0s] admonishing the rulers and those who are
[1800.6s] in
[1801.8s] responsibility that they must and
[1805.3s] dispense love, justice and hate of
[1809.0s] wickedness and evil. I also see a case
[1812.8s] here that um
[1815.3s] uh that those who claim to love God must
[1819.8s] also show that they obey him. And
[1823.0s] obedience to God here shows justice.
[1825.9s] That when we obey God, there is no way
[1828.4s] we can love God when we love evil. There
[1832.3s] is no way when we can claim that we we
[1834.9s] love God and love justice when we love
[1838.5s] evil and wickedness. So the love of God
[1841.9s] must be demonstrated in our lives
[1845.2s] through justice. That is loving what is
[1848.9s] supposed to be okay with God. The fear
[1852.3s] of God and hate of evil. And that is why
[1858.0s] um Jesus said, "If you love me, you have
[1862.3s] to keep my commandments. And if you love
[1865.1s] me, also love one another." uh later
[1869.5s] formally in the book of Micah chapter 6
[1872.7s] when Mah was asking then what should I
[1875.0s] do to demonstrate love for God? Should I
[1878.6s] come with rivers of oil? He was told
[1881.6s] that does not matter. What should I come
[1884.1s] with the thousands of rams and slaughter
[1886.9s] to God just to demonstrate my love and
[1889.8s] affection to him? He was told no. And
[1892.5s] then he even offered can I give my
[1894.8s] firstborn son because I think that would
[1897.5s] be the most precious gift one would
[1899.8s] give. He was still l you even that one
[1902.5s] does not matter. Then he then what is
[1904.8s] the he then the Bible say he assured you
[1907.4s] oh man what is required. What does the
[1910.4s] Lord require of thee to love mercy and
[1914.2s] justice? So I find that God has given us
[1919.0s] God has demonstrated his love for
[1921.0s] justice which should be demonstrated by
[1923.9s] us in hate of evil but walking in his
[1927.5s] path and demonstrating it this and
[1929.9s] extending it to one another where we
[1932.8s] need to demonstrate love where we need
[1936.0s] to give counel devoid of evil and uh
[1941.5s] wickedness that is what God truly
[1944.1s] requires of us you and me all the
[1947.4s] viewers all brothers and sisters God
[1949.9s] requires to love mercy and justice that
[1952.2s] is to hate evil and walk in his ways.
[1955.1s] Thank you. Such great unpacking from
[1957.8s] from Elder in terms of how do we
[1960.3s] demonstrate um justice in our everyday
[1963.7s] life and I want to take us to the book
[1965.8s] of Micah chapter 6 verse 8. It says, "He
[1971.0s] has shown you, oh man, what is good and
[1974.8s] what does the Lord require of you, but
[1978.3s] to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk
[1982.7s] humbly with your God." And just to roll
[1986.6s] it to our brother Raphael in terms of
[1990.1s] understanding what does this mean in our
[1992.6s] daily lives, in our communities, in our
[1994.8s] workplaces, just to be able to to
[1997.7s] demonstrate this particular um uh
[2000.3s] commandment and this particular aspect
[2002.6s] aspect of God that is called upon us.
[2006.8s] I think if we are to follow the
[2009.3s] prescription given in Micah 6 and verse
[2011.4s] 8 from the highest office in the land to
[2013.7s] the lowest I think then Kenya would be a
[2016.6s] very wonderful nation to live in. You
[2019.1s] know if resources are distributed with
[2021.7s] just with justice and with mercy you
[2025.0s] know if if we treat one another no the
[2027.5s] courts give justice and mercy. Uh not
[2030.6s] only mercy applies to those who are in
[2033.0s] the wrong you know when you are when
[2034.9s] when you receive um when you receive
[2038.0s] grace there is mercy. Um and also
[2041.6s] equally when you have been wronged uh
[2044.0s] the person who has been wronged uh
[2046.7s] justice cries out and so God is asking
[2049.7s] us to balance justice and mercy and in a
[2052.6s] in a in in a world where justice and
[2054.7s] mercy reign supreme for a fact God
[2057.8s] himself will be on the throne. God
[2059.8s] himself will be the ruler and that is
[2062.1s] the wonderful that is the recipe for
[2065.5s] peaceful and successful coexistence
[2067.8s] among men. And if we were to do this,
[2070.5s] we'll have we'll see peace and joy and
[2073.0s] love in our homes, peace and joy and
[2075.4s] loves in our churches. Peace, joy, and
[2077.3s] love in our communities. Amen. Amen.
[2080.6s] Wow. That's very profound. And just
[2084.7s] translating to us as believers being
[2087.9s] very intentional in our words, in our
[2091.2s] deeds towards showing justice, showing
[2094.3s] love to to each other. And just moving
[2097.8s] on to the Wednesday part and uh bringing
[2100.2s] over brother Chrisal to help us
[2103.1s] understand how exactly are we called um
[2107.4s] to establish justice. Yes. Um how are we
[2111.6s] called to establish justice?
[2115.5s] Um God is a God of love and I the every
[2120.3s] one who has come before me uh as in this
[2123.4s] discussion has really emphasized that
[2125.8s] that it is the nature of who he is and
[2129.3s] the fact that he is a god of love. He is
[2132.6s] also a god of judgment. We have seen the
[2135.4s] cry of judgment through the ages in the
[2137.7s] great controversy. And because he's a
[2140.3s] god of judgment, it precludes that
[2142.4s] precludes the fact that he is also a god
[2145.4s] of justice. For justice
[2148.9s] cannot justice exists in the context of
[2153.0s] judgment. Thus we see that God is the
[2156.0s] only one who finally will establish
[2159.0s] justice as it is his divine prerogative.
[2163.9s] But we see, you know, the fact that
[2166.8s] there is a cry through out the scope of
[2171.3s] scripture to the need to establish or
[2175.8s] see justice in the earth has shows that
[2180.2s] there has justice has not been rendered
[2182.6s] as it ought to have been. And thus we
[2186.0s] see that it is in his delay. There has
[2190.2s] been a sort of delay or reluctance on
[2192.4s] the part of God to establish justice.
[2198.0s] But is it a delay? Is it a reluctance?
[2202.6s] What I can refer to it is it is divine
[2205.5s] moral
[2206.9s] constraint in the context of what you've
[2209.7s] discussed before the the the
[2213.6s] the rules of engagement under the great
[2217.8s] controversy from the time of Abel and
[2220.2s] Cain when it is recorded where it is
[2223.0s] recorded in the book of Genesis 4:10
[2226.1s] where the where we see that the voice of
[2230.0s] Abel's blood crith
[2232.7s] to God from the ground to the book of
[2236.8s] Revelation chapter 6 verse 9 to 10 where
[2241.4s] it is written that and he had when he
[2243.9s] had opened the fifth seal I saw under
[2246.2s] the altar the souls of them that was
[2249.5s] slain for the word of God and for the
[2251.9s] testimony which they held. And they
[2254.8s] cried with a loud voice, saying, "How
[2257.3s] long, O
[2259.1s] Lord, holy and true, dost thou judge,
[2262.6s] and avenge our blood on them that dwell
[2265.8s] on the earth?" These are crying. These
[2268.8s] are cries from the beginning of the
[2272.4s] scriptural record right to the end of
[2275.8s] time before judgment. There is a cry
[2279.7s] throughout scripture, a continual
[2282.0s] unseasing cry for justice to be
[2285.3s] established. During Christ's ministry,
[2288.3s] Christ took up this cry for justice in
[2292.2s] Matthew 23 where he rebukes the
[2295.4s] Pharisees and the scribes for their
[2297.9s] excesses in in in in the religious um
[2302.7s] system that God had called them to uh to
[2306.6s] demonstrate as a as a covenant
[2310.6s] relational um uh worship experience with
[2314.1s] him which they had perverted to become a
[2318.2s] form rather than an experience. In
[2321.1s] Matthew chapter 23 23, Christ rebukes
[2325.7s] this form of worship, this false worship
[2329.8s] of God in these words, woe unto you uh
[2334.2s] scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for
[2337.1s] you pay type of mint and anise and
[2341.3s] cumin, and you have committed you have
[2344.2s] omitted the weightier matters of the
[2346.1s] law, judgment, mercy, and faith. This ye
[2351.2s] ought to have done and not leave the
[2355.2s] other. Remember in this scripture God
[2358.5s] Christ does not rebuke the paying of
[2361.3s] tithe on as it were. It was part of the
[2364.9s] command of God to the children of Israel
[2367.8s] in the Old Testament for that it was
[2371.8s] paying of tithe and offerings were part
[2375.0s] of the worship experience in giving back
[2378.3s] as a response to God the blessing that
[2380.9s] he had offered them. But it says that
[2383.8s] they had
[2385.2s] omitted they had as it were
[2389.6s] separated the ideas of the weightier
[2393.1s] matters of the law. What I have come to
[2398.2s] learn about this uh the idea that Christ
[2401.6s] puts across is that justice, mercy and
[2405.4s] faith and even love being the witty
[2409.1s] matters of the law, they are the
[2411.5s] principles that underly the law of God
[2415.5s] as it were. They are the thread that
[2418.9s] ties together the whole fabric of the
[2421.7s] law. These deal not only with the
[2425.0s] outward
[2426.5s] uh demonstrations, the outward demands
[2429.3s] of the law, but they are deal with the
[2433.1s] motives and intents of the earth.
[2435.9s] Therefore, we see in this Christ rebukes
[2439.0s] the excesses of the Pharisees which was
[2442.3s] demonstrated in separating justice and
[2445.0s] love in separating the principles of
[2448.4s] justice, love and mercy from the doing
[2451.0s] of the law. In fact, Christ goes on to
[2453.8s] rebuke them as whited sepalas.
[2457.0s] They are whited sepulas. They are
[2459.4s] beautiful on the outside, but within
[2461.7s] they have what? Dead men's bodies. Mhm.
[2465.3s] and bonds and thus we see that this
[2468.5s] became a form of godliness. Woe unto us
[2471.8s] if our religious experience becomes thus
[2475.2s] that it is only a form of godliness
[2478.4s] without the power without the full
[2482.0s] experience God wants us to have. So how
[2484.6s] is this justice to be established? In
[2487.3s] verse 26 of the same book of Matthew 23
[2490.0s] we find our answer. Thou blind
[2493.5s] Pharisee, cleanse first that which is
[2496.6s] within the cup and platter that the
[2499.3s] outside may be clean
[2501.2s] also.
[2502.9s] Now God is calling us this day to
[2506.9s] reflect deeply. How are we within? Are
[2512.0s] the principles of justice? Are the
[2514.5s] principles of love, mercy and judgment
[2518.1s] established within our hearts? Have we
[2521.0s] seen? Have we experienced that? And if
[2524.4s] we have not, God is faithful to give us
[2527.4s] this principles to be the foundation of
[2530.9s] every motive, every intention. So that
[2534.4s] in the outward
[2536.0s] demonstration, all our our acts shall be
[2539.7s] guided by the principles of judgment,
[2543.1s] mercy, and faith. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[2546.4s] Amen. that there's a specific way that
[2550.2s] we are expected to to to show and
[2553.6s] establish justice and just to give it to
[2557.0s] our sister in terms of understanding how
[2560.6s] would it look like when we focus on
[2563.8s] matters of weight because um from just
[2569.0s] the the reading that we've been able to
[2571.0s] have and the unpacking from brother
[2573.0s] Chris Pal we've been able to understand
[2574.6s] that there are actually matters that
[2576.5s] have been put weight into as compared to
[2579.8s] what we think are weightier to God.
[2583.0s] There are weightier matters and these
[2585.2s] are the matters of the law, justice,
[2588.5s] mercy and faith. So our sister Reise
[2591.6s] just tell us how would it look like if
[2594.2s] we put our focus on the weightier
[2597.0s] matters as compared to other matters
[2600.1s] that we think could be weightier and
[2602.8s] they're not.
[2604.8s] As Chris Paul has beautifully explained
[2607.0s] is that the Pharisees were serious and
[2609.8s] meticulous Christians in the outward
[2612.2s] demonstration of keeping the law and yet
[2615.0s] we are saying that they did not do
[2616.8s] enough. They did not concentrate on the
[2620.2s] weightier matters and also as he said
[2622.7s] that Jesus was not telling them that
[2625.4s] they should not pay tithe or do other
[2628.2s] religious duties. Those were very
[2630.1s] important and critical. But he said they
[2632.6s] could have put more weight on this
[2635.0s] justice, mercy and faith. And this calls
[2638.3s] us for introspection because now we are
[2641.4s] looking at the Pharisees and saying they
[2643.0s] didn't do much. But if I'm thinking
[2645.1s] about myself and racist as Reist, what
[2648.2s] I'm saying is this. As I look at the
[2651.0s] Pharisees and I look myself, is there
[2654.3s] any difference? Because the question I'm
[2656.7s] asking in terms of justice, am I
[2660.1s] treating others fairly and standing
[2662.3s] against
[2663.6s] injustice? If I'm talking about mercy,
[2667.1s] am I compassionate and forgiving to
[2669.8s] others? If I'm talking about faith, do I
[2673.5s] trust God and obey his commandments in
[2676.7s] all aspects of my life? If I could put
[2680.2s] weight on these
[2682.1s] things, then the world will be a better
[2685.1s] place and our Christian experience would
[2688.6s] be enriched.
[2692.4s] Amen. Um, getting to understand who
[2696.5s] exactly is our neighbor when this
[2698.3s] commandment has been given unto us and
[2701.6s] we are expected to to to execute this
[2705.3s] particular commandment. But let us
[2707.1s] understand who exactly is our neighbor.
[2709.8s] Who should we be showing this love to?
[2712.2s] And I'll invite our sister Whitney just
[2714.6s] to be able to highlight that to
[2717.8s] us. Who is my neighbor? Many of times we
[2721.9s] see a neighbor as someone who is next
[2724.2s] door or maybe you're seated in church
[2726.6s] and you're saying my neighbor is someone
[2728.4s] seated next to
[2729.7s] me. Or whenever you leave, you know that
[2733.7s] person who is close to you is your
[2735.4s] neighbor. But Jesus comes and um tells
[2738.1s] us differently. So a story is told in
[2740.6s] the book of Luke chap 10 verse
[2745.4s] 25-37. And this the story goes I'll read
[2749.1s] from King James version. It says and
[2751.1s] behold a certain lawyer stood up and
[2754.1s] tempted him saying master what shall I
[2757.7s] do to inherit eternal life? You know
[2761.0s] when lawyer a certain lawyer stood up to
[2763.4s] test him. When lawyers stand to test you
[2766.2s] these are people who are well
[2768.0s] knowledgeable and they know and when
[2770.4s] they ask you of something most of the
[2772.8s] time they all have all evidence on paper
[2775.7s] ready to bring forth their their point
[2779.4s] of story. You know this lawyer wasn't
[2781.3s] just asking because he wanted to know
[2783.2s] the truth. He was testing Jesus. Like
[2786.4s] just some of us, we just like to seek
[2789.4s] knowledge, not to obey it, but to
[2791.8s] debate, looking for ways to limit our
[2795.2s] responsibilities. And he said, and Jesus
[2798.3s] answered, what is written in law, how
[2801.8s] readest thou, you know, instead of just
[2804.7s] giving a direct answer, he just he
[2807.7s] posted back the question to the lawyer.
[2809.5s] And the law being well read said and
[2812.1s] answer and he answering said, "Thou
[2814.6s] shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
[2816.7s] heart, and with all thy soul, and with
[2818.9s] all with all thy strength, and with all
[2821.4s] thy mind, and thy neighbor as
[2824.2s] thyself." And he said unto him, "Thou
[2826.6s] has answered right, this do, and thou
[2829.4s] shalt live." You know, laws don't like
[2831.8s] to to get direct answers and that's it.
[2835.1s] They go further, a next step. And so
[2837.8s] this layer went on and says, "But he
[2840.7s] willing to justify himself said unto
[2844.2s] Jesus, and who is my neighbor?" And this
[2847.4s] is where we want to dwell mostly. And
[2849.8s] Jesus answering said, So Jesus comes up
[2853.3s] and tells him a story. And he said, "A
[2855.8s] man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho
[2858.0s] and fell among thieves, which stripped
[2860.5s] him and his reignment, and hidden him,
[2863.5s] and departed, leaving him half dead. And
[2866.8s] by chance there came down a certain
[2868.7s] priest that way. And when he saw him, he
[2871.4s] passed on by the side. I believe this
[2874.9s] priest maybe was um in a hurry to be in
[2878.8s] church to take responsibilities. Maybe
[2881.8s] he's the one who has the sermon of the
[2883.4s] day. So seeing someone there lying by
[2886.0s] the road helpless, he was like, "Let me
[2888.3s] go tell the word of God." And he's
[2890.6s] coming to church to preach about love
[2892.1s] your neighbor as you love yourself. We
[2894.1s] should be we should make steps not just
[2897.8s] speak the word but be doers of the word
[2900.5s] too. And then a second person came and
[2903.2s] likewise a levit when he was at the he
[2905.8s] was at the place came and looked on him
[2909.3s] and passed on the other side. You know
[2912.2s] the priest did not even look at this man
[2914.3s] to begin with but the lev when he came
[2916.7s] he looked but passed on the other side.
[2919.1s] Then maybe he thought this man the way
[2921.0s] he was beaten up. He thought um because
[2923.7s] he has blood all over he's unclean and
[2926.1s] will um will make me unclean for the
[2929.5s] surface that I have to to deliver the
[2931.6s] church. And so he passed by but a
[2934.2s] certain Samaritan as it journeyied came
[2937.8s] where he was and when he saw him he had
[2940.3s] compassion on it. So ironical, you know,
[2943.7s] the Jews and the Samaritans are not
[2945.8s] terms by then. And um it was a religious
[2950.3s] uh and also racist maybe in this world
[2953.4s] today. And this is the person who saw
[2956.6s] the guy the saw the man laying there and
[2959.5s] had compassion on him. And he went to
[2961.8s] him and bound up his wounds, pouring in
[2964.6s] oil and wine, and set him on his own
[2968.7s] beast, and brought him to in and took
[2971.4s] care of him. And on the on the moral
[2974.2s] when he departed, he took out two piece
[2977.2s] and gave them to the host, and said unto
[2979.4s] him, take care of him, and whosoever
[2981.5s] thou spendest more, when I come again, I
[2985.4s] will repay thee. You know Jesus when we
[2988.7s] when we see the story of this Samaritan
[2991.4s] Jesus himself is the ultimate Samaritan
[2993.8s] in our lives today. He stepped out into
[2996.7s] the world to save us. He didn't just
[2999.4s] help us from a distance. You know he
[3001.3s] could have just said that may my people
[3003.6s] be saved from heaven. But he came down
[3006.0s] himself and attended to us in our
[3008.1s] wounds. He became one of us. He carried
[3010.5s] our burdens. Pay the price for her
[3012.9s] healing. And you know he just didn't go
[3015.8s] back like that. Just a Samaritan he he
[3018.0s] came and said I will be back and if
[3020.6s] there's anything that you use extra I
[3023.0s] will pay. So Jesus also promised us that
[3025.8s] he will return and he will come for us.
[3028.6s] To conclude Jesus poses a question back
[3031.7s] to the lawyer. Which now of these three
[3035.4s] thinkst thou was neighbor unto thee him
[3038.2s] that fell among the thieves?
[3041.3s] You know, and and and the lawyer being
[3043.8s] as he is, he just said the the good
[3046.0s] Samaritan was the was the was the one
[3049.4s] who acted as a neighbor and he said, "He
[3052.5s] that showed mercy on him." And Jesus
[3054.6s] said unto him, "Go and do likewise." You
[3057.7s] know, so this story, this story is not
[3060.1s] just a story. It is not just a nice
[3062.9s] story for us. It is a call for action.
[3066.4s] Being a good Samaritan means standing
[3068.8s] against injustice.
[3071.2s] healing the oppressed, helping the
[3072.9s] oppressed, and showing mercy where
[3074.3s] others ignore suffering. It means
[3076.5s] choosing love
[3079.5s] over over hate and over apathy. So, in
[3083.6s] light of the prophet's cry for mercy,
[3085.7s] this passage reminds us that our faith
[3088.3s] is measured out is not measured out by
[3091.3s] words, but by love. We must ask ourself,
[3094.8s] who is wounded and left by the roadside
[3096.8s] in our world today. Are we like the
[3099.7s] priest and the Levite, too busy and and
[3103.5s] too fearful to help? Or will we be like
[3106.2s] the good Samaritan cross the barriers of
[3109.6s] religion, racism and social status just
[3112.9s] to show mercy to one another? Let's
[3114.7s] ponder on this question and act and ask
[3117.3s] ourself who is our neighbor. Amen. Amen.
[3121.6s] Beautiful. Um just to understand that
[3126.3s] our neighbor is the person who is in
[3128.8s] need. a person who needs us to extend
[3132.0s] the love, to extend the justice that uh
[3135.8s] we we are called to to to to extend. And
[3140.6s] um as we look into that and just getting
[3144.5s] from our our sister Whitney in terms of
[3148.3s] Jesus being the ultimate uh Samaritan
[3151.5s] and him just coming um to us in terms of
[3156.5s] from heaven. He came down just to be
[3159.0s] able to save us um from our sins. and
[3163.0s] him throughout his life, throughout his
[3165.9s] ministry, throughout the miracles that
[3168.7s] he was able to do, we are seeing the
[3171.2s] love, the love of God and the justice of
[3174.2s] God. And maybe just to pose a question
[3177.4s] to elder in terms of how can we in our
[3181.9s] small little ways uh be able to to
[3185.8s] extend that love for us we cannot
[3188.8s] probably perform that major miracle that
[3192.0s] is needed uh but in our small ways still
[3195.8s] be miraculous.
[3197.9s] Uh thank you so much. Uh I want to thank
[3200.5s] my sister for elaborating this point
[3202.9s] very well because the question of who is
[3204.8s] my neighbor has been a long-term
[3207.2s] question and bothers people am I my
[3211.1s] brother's keeper the question which was
[3213.7s] posed
[3214.8s] to Kane that uh where is your brother
[3219.0s] and he asked posed the question back to
[3221.6s] God my brother's keeper and this
[3224.5s] question continues to ring a bell and
[3226.8s] truly we are our brothers and sisters
[3229.0s] keepers us from the teachings and from
[3231.3s] the elaboration which has been given and
[3233.3s] from the story of the good Samaritan. We
[3235.7s] see this one truly as one and Jesus
[3238.8s] demonstrated it also by living his glory
[3242.0s] uh the uh uh glory and coming down to
[3245.1s] die for you and me to you and me. Now
[3247.8s] what can we do to demonstrate this even
[3250.4s] if it is in a small way? You know
[3255.8s] uh the book of John 13:35 Jesus said all
[3261.1s] will know that you are my disciples if
[3263.9s] you love if you have love for one
[3267.4s] another. That just by doing whatever we
[3271.0s] are able to do to the betterment of
[3273.8s] another person that demonstrates love.
[3276.7s] It doesn't mean to be a very big thing
[3279.6s] and a very peculiar thing but we should
[3283.1s] continue to do good. Paul also
[3285.3s] enumerated in the book of Galatians uh
[3288.5s] chapter 6:9 Paul says that let us not
[3292.2s] grow weary while doing good for in due
[3295.5s] season we shall reap if we do not lose
[3298.7s] heart. So we are admonished to continue
[3302.9s] doing whatever we do. I bring a story.
[3306.2s] It is a poem which is highly known. It
[3309.0s] is called it is a uh first they came.
[3311.8s] That is the title of that uh poem by
[3315.1s] Martin Nimla who was um a very active
[3319.1s] preacher. But first of all by around
[3322.4s] 1920 he was very much a pro pronaz Nazi
[3327.5s] regime. But when Hitler came to power he
[3330.0s] became his fiercest critic. And this
[3333.7s] poem goes that first they came for the
[3337.1s] communists and I did not speak out
[3340.2s] because I was not a communist. Then they
[3344.0s] came for the socialists and I did not
[3347.1s] speak out because I was not a socialist.
[3350.6s] Then they came for the trade unionists
[3353.3s] and I did not speak out because I was
[3355.8s] not a trade unionist. Then they came for
[3358.4s] the Jews and I did not speak out because
[3360.9s] I was not a Jew. Then they came for me
[3363.8s] and then and there was no one left to
[3367.6s] speak out for me. People have used it to
[3371.0s] bring other versions. They came for
[3373.2s] journalists and I did not speak because
[3375.4s] I was not a journalist. And finally they
[3377.8s] came for me and no one was there for me.
[3381.0s] This uh this um poem became very
[3384.2s] profound and I find it relevant in
[3386.5s] dealing with who is my neighbor. Many of
[3389.2s] times we only think of my neighbor as my
[3391.5s] tribes man. Where there is problem of
[3394.8s] tribalism we think we think my neighbor
[3397.9s] or my brother is my tribes man. Where
[3400.7s] the problem is race we think now my
[3403.7s] brother and my neighbor is my fellow my
[3406.2s] my my my racemate.
[3409.2s] But this thing goes down until clan
[3412.6s] county. It goes down until you go to
[3415.8s] constituency down down up to the family
[3418.9s] until you reach the person you are born
[3421.2s] with from the same mother. But this one
[3423.5s] tells us that a neighbor is somebody who
[3427.1s] is really in need where something
[3431.0s] somebody to whom we can extend the love
[3434.5s] of Christ that is truly a neighbor. It
[3437.8s] can be through sharing of the word of
[3440.2s] God which you and I may be bestowed with
[3443.0s] and the person just needs that that is
[3445.7s] truly somebody who is a neighbor who to
[3448.7s] whom we may show the love of Christ.
[3452.2s] Thank you. Amen. Amen. Wow. such uh
[3455.7s] profound learnings and uh takings in
[3459.1s] terms of um who is our neighbor and what
[3462.6s] is expected of us in terms of us being
[3465.5s] our brother's keepers and showing
[3468.6s] concern for their well-being as our
[3471.3s] ultimate way of showing love to each
[3474.5s] other to one another. Such a beautiful
[3477.0s] lesson. And as we wind up on it, maybe
[3479.9s] uh the panel could just take less than a
[3482.2s] minute just to give us the the final
[3484.6s] takeaways um um from this particular
[3487.6s] discuss discussion
[3489.9s] today. We'll start with Elder back to
[3493.2s] you. Uh thank you so much. uh my my my
[3496.1s] my take something which has given me a
[3498.8s] lot of joy is Psalm 146 verse 7 to to 9
[3505.4s] and it says who executes justice for the
[3508.4s] oppressed who gives food to the hungry.
[3511.6s] The Lord gives freedom to the prisoners.
[3514.1s] The Lord opens the eyes of the blind.
[3516.6s] The Lord raises those who are bowed
[3520.1s] down. The Lord loves the righteous. Um,
[3523.8s] the Lord watches over the strangers. He
[3527.6s] relieves the fatherless and widows, but
[3530.5s] the ways of the wicked it turns upside
[3533.8s] down. This text, my brother and sister,
[3537.0s] gives a profound uh encouragement to us
[3540.2s] that the Lord gives freedom to the
[3543.6s] prisoners. He gives food to the hungry.
[3547.4s] The Lord opens the eyes of the blind.
[3550.0s] But he also it also concludes that the
[3552.6s] plans of the wicked it turns upside
[3555.3s] down. I realize that it is good to cast
[3559.0s] our lot on the side of the Lord so that
[3562.5s] whatever it is you and I are going
[3564.6s] through the Lord is able to provide food
[3567.4s] is able to open our eyes to the
[3569.4s] realities of life. He's not only
[3571.8s] concerned about other uh religious,
[3574.6s] political. He's also concerned about
[3577.2s] your daily life and my daily life and
[3580.0s] the things we need. May we cast our lot
[3583.5s] on the side of the Lord. Amen. Amen.
[3588.9s] I'm I'm learning that loving God and
[3591.4s] others is inseparable because love for
[3594.6s] God transform us as human beings and we
[3597.0s] love truly with our hearts. Let's be
[3599.1s] compassionate to one another. The Bible
[3601.9s] tells us in Matthew 25:40, "And the king
[3605.5s] shall answer and say unto them, verily
[3607.5s] and say unto you, in as much as you do
[3609.8s] it unto one of the least of these
[3612.4s] brethren, he have done it unto me."
[3615.3s] Let's not
[3617.7s] um differentiate one another according
[3620.5s] to race, religion or anything but let's
[3623.2s] show compassion to everyone just as much
[3626.2s] as let's not see that they are the least
[3628.6s] of the people and uh let's be ready to
[3632.4s] show love to everyone and be good
[3635.1s] neighbors.
[3639.7s] I take is uh in 1 John
[3642.4s] 3:16. By this we know love because he
[3646.4s] laid down his life for us. And we also
[3651.0s] ought to lay down our lives for the
[3654.8s] brethren. God is calling us this day. is
[3658.6s] calling upon you and me to pass on the
[3662.6s] love and justice to others because we
[3667.0s] are we are to be partakers and givers of
[3672.3s] this experience. Now it behooves us
[3675.2s] therefore to look at practical ways and
[3678.3s] means through which we can because love
[3681.3s] and justice as we are seeing in
[3683.0s] scripture are intensely practical. They
[3686.5s] are not just theoretical but they are
[3689.2s] the weightier matters of the law. They
[3691.4s] are things that we are to
[3693.6s] continually think upon. They are things
[3695.9s] that we are to continually uh find new
[3699.2s] ways and means of demonstrating. May God
[3702.6s] help us in Jesus name. Amen. Indeed. I
[3706.6s] think the lesson is uh uh this
[3708.5s] particular week has been very practical
[3711.0s] in that it is calling us to to see that
[3715.0s] the opposite of love isn't hate but
[3717.4s] rather it is self when we are self when
[3721.2s] we think only about ourselves and and
[3723.7s] those whom we consider to be part of
[3725.1s] ourselves then we fall out of the love
[3727.4s] of God and so it's telling us that we
[3730.2s] cannot say that we love God whom we have
[3732.6s] not seen yet there is a brother there is
[3735.0s] a sister whom whom you have seen and you
[3737.4s] keep seeing and you have full knowledge
[3739.1s] that they are in need and you do nothing
[3741.1s] about. True religion is practical. Love
[3744.0s] as they say is a verb. And it is by
[3746.4s] doing by doing what? By executing
[3749.0s] justice and showing mercy. And it is my
[3752.2s] prayer and my desire that we be doers
[3754.7s] and we found having the three greatest
[3757.8s] commandments in obedience.
[3760.2s] Amen. Amen. our sister. This week's
[3763.4s] lesson has just been repeat and expand
[3765.8s] just like the way we study Bible
[3767.4s] prophecy. And it's a call for action. So
[3771.4s] me, I and you, what are we going to do
[3774.4s] to show that we love God and we love our
[3778.0s] neighbors because it's a call for
[3780.7s] action. And loving God means
[3783.7s] prioritizing him above everything else.
[3787.0s] obeying his commandments, worshiping him
[3789.5s] in truth and in spirit, and loving
[3791.9s] others. What does that mean? Helping the
[3794.5s] poor and the needy, forgiving and
[3796.4s] showing mercy, and treating others
[3799.0s] justly. That is what the Lord is calling
[3801.3s] us to do. And I pray that he might find
[3803.8s] space in our hearts that these words
[3806.1s] that has spoken to us may be actions in
[3808.6s] our lives. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you.
[3812.6s] Thank you, uh, Sister Reise. And um as
[3816.6s] we conclude on this uh particular
[3818.7s] lesson, just to emphasize on how love
[3821.8s] and justice are way connected in terms
[3824.8s] of us being called out to love, in terms
[3827.6s] of us being called out to sacrifice in a
[3830.6s] way to show love to each other, to our
[3833.1s] neighbors so that we can continue on
[3836.4s] this particular race and getting to the
[3839.5s] kingdom of God. So I welcome you all
[3842.7s] just uh as we uh finalize on this
[3846.2s] particular quarter in terms of um the
[3848.9s] lesson next week. Uh love is the
[3851.7s] fulfillment of the law. Um wanting to
[3855.0s] wish you a wonderful Sabbath and um a
[3858.7s] good day. Our heavenly master, uh we
[3861.8s] thank you for this day that you've given
[3864.0s] unto us. We thank you for this uh
[3866.9s] opportunity and chance that you've given
[3868.7s] us to go through this particular
[3870.7s] discussion and understanding what it
[3873.2s] means to love, what it means to be just.
[3876.0s] Oh God, we pray that in our different
[3879.3s] ways. Oh Lord, in our different
[3881.4s] capacities, oh God, may you give us the
[3883.6s] grace uh that we need to to show love,
[3886.9s] to show justice to each and everyone
[3889.6s] around us. King of glory. May you enable
[3892.2s] us to to take this up and put it in our
[3895.1s] actions in our day to day lives. Oh God,
[3898.7s] we thank you and we bless you for your
[3900.7s] word. We thank you and we bless you for
[3902.7s] your people, oh God. And we pray
[3905.0s] trusting and believing that you're going
[3906.5s] to be with us that you're going to hold
[3908.7s] our hands in each and every step of our
[3911.3s] way in the mighty name of Jesus. We pray
[3913.9s] trusting and believing.
[3916.7s] Amen. Amen.
[3925.9s] [Music]