Title: Lesson 8 || In the Psalms: Part 1 || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: uk5-YJkbbBE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uk5-YJkbbBE
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you so much for joining us today at New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifthgong Avenue, Nairobi. From wherever you're watching us from, good morning, good afternoon, good evening. We are studying the Sabbath school lesson today. And with me, I am joined by two of my friends. I would like them to introduce themselves. Starting with you, brother Rafael. My name is Enango Rafa Misa and it's a pleasure to be here. And my husband is also with us today. Kindly introduce yourself. Thank you. My name is Jafet Rono. Happy to be here. Amen. Before we begin, would you kindly pray with us today? Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity for this um uh study. We are entering into a study of the Psalms as they relate to prophecy and the book of Revelation. We ask for insight and understanding that your holy spirit abide with us that Jesus Christ may be revealed in this discussion in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you once again brothers and sisters for joining us. This is now lesson eight. We have studied eight lessons so far. I hope you have been following us um through this study discussion. We ask you to interact with us, ask questions, contribute, give your comments for this lesson as we continue studying together. Today we are looking at the book of Psalms. You know, we are studying images, illusions, symbols as used in prophetic books of the Bible to help us to understand the prophecy that is relevant in these last days. And some would wonder, how would we go to the book of Psalms for illusions and symbols? You know the Bible writes and says I think it is in the book of Colossians that you know admonish one another using whats using Psalms. Admonish one another using Psalms. I have friends of mine who study the book of Psalms whenever they are seeking encouragement when they want to see the light of the word of God especially in their lowest moments. The book of Psalms also has a lot to tell us of what God is doing for his church in these last days. I want us to start by reading our key text today. Brother Rafael, kindly read for us Revelation 14 verse1. Revelation 14:1 says, reading from the New King James Version, then I looked and behold a lamb standing on Mount Zion and with him 144,000 having his father's name written on their foreheads. There are 144,000 standing on Mount Zion. I do think I have reference of Mount Zion in the book of Revelation. But the there's one place which speaks about Mount Zion. Even before we interact with it in the book of Revelation, we see um David constantly speaking of this Zion, of this place where he would want to dwell with God. And I just want us to go there. Um if we can start with you brother Jaffet please please just speak to us about David's relationship with the house of God how he interacted with it and what he felt about it. Thank you. I think even before we do that we would understand uh the most central figure in the sanctuary because David does reference the sanctuary very often. The most central figure in the sanctuary was the high priest because um not only was he present, he was one of the priests who could take part in the daily sacrifices morning and evening, but he played a very key role during one very important event, the day of atonement. Now, uh we are told in the book of Hebrews um unequivocally that Jesus Christ is a representation um um of of the high priests. Actually for the last many many um weeks we've actually been reviewing the different symbols in the sanctuary. Um over and over especially it has come to us that the lamb um a very central figure is none other than who? Jesus Christ and so is the high priest. In the book of Hebrews um chapter uh 9 reading verse 11 to 15 you find a description of the high priest and what Christ is doing as a representation of as the antitype as the fulfillment of the high priest in heaven. Uh it we're told but Christ be being come an high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hands that is to say not of this construction not the way you and I construct buildings um uh or they're constructed here on earth Christ not by men not by human beings yeah no matter how glorious I think um uh two or three lessons ago we had discussed about how the temple became more glorious you know but even then they were they they were fallible they were broken they were twice actually they were destroyed yes the first time Solomon's and Herods um is it of these people like Abraham who we are told in the book of Hebrews that they looked forward to a city whose maker was God like something made differently amen yes so now Christ in fulfillment of the the the type in the old testament is a high priest of the heavenly sanctuary neither by the blood of bulls and goats and calves, but by his own blood he has entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. And that's precisely what Christ did. Christ entered once into the into the holy places into the tabernacle that is um the holy place of um uh of the sanctuary in heaven uh to actually do that work of intercession that the high priest here on earth used to do. And I remember again uh because we are really referencing a lot of what we had studied before of the high priest of how we had discussed very clearly that those uh bulls and those goats the many of them multitudes which even at a time in the book of Isaiah Christ God had rejected uh receiving we know that they didn't truly uh bring cleansing because there are only symbols only types but Christ himself is the one who can truly cleanse us and and and interestingly Even Moses, even Abraham, even Adam, every single person in the Old Testament was looking forward to the work that Christ is even presently doing um in h in in heaven for all of us. So um I remember when I was studying um the day of atonement, I know we uh touching it in this lesson. We're touching maybe in in some future lessons that the high priest during the day of atonement was a a such a key figure. Clearly even in the text it says that he was a representation of all Israel. It's the same way that you and I now by faith obviously by trusting that Christ did that work for us that we appreciate that Christ did um does continue to intercede on our behalf in heaven. Uh continuing verse 13. For if the blood of bulls, of goats, the ashes of an hephera, and the sprinkling um the unclean sanctifies to the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot um of to God to pge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And again we are told for this cause because of this because he serves at such a higher stage stage and status um he is therefore the mediator of a new testament almost in a sense the new agreement which god himself had promised um in the old testament. So all of this is is it's almost like um all of these were wonderful lessons and gifts that God had packaged in the Old Testament within the sanctuary system that were awaiting fulfillment in Christ. And all these things we'll see are things that David himself was a witness to. In fact um one of the most interesting um verses I remember um when I came to because let me be honest um very few Christians are keen on the sanctuary system. Very few. It's unfortunate. If you study Psalm 77:13, what does it say? Thy way, oh Lord, is in the sanctuary. Sanctuary. Thy way, oh God, is in the sanctuary. It surprised me so much. I was wondering, wait, what does that mean? Because in my mind, I was just thinking it's Christ in the cross and that's it. Yeah, it's wonderful. Christ and the cross are important but they are central precisely because they were fulfillment of what was in the sanctuary in the Old Testament what God had promised through so many of um the patriarchs of old and and another interesting thing about the sanctuary again before coming to the psalms is that the same sanctuary pattern the same sanctuary pieces that um that are found in the old testament in which Christ himself was a minister are actually found in the book of revelation. I know we are looking for these connections between um uh between Psalms and the book of Revelation. Um just hold on to that though. I'm coming back there so that you can tie it back to the book of Revelation. But I want to ask brother Raphael, what inspired the children of Israel to to design the sanctuary the way it was designed? Indeed in the book of Exodus uh 25 and verse 9 if I am not wrong we find uh Moses uh the idea of the sanctuary in and of itself is uh in accordance with the pattern that God himself uh laid out Exodus 25:9 uh in verse 8 God says let them make me a sanctuary that I might dwell among them the concept of a God who wants wants to dwell with his people. It's a concept of a God who wants to be literally next to you. You know, he doesn't want to be far. You know, sometimes when we pray uh even in our prayers, we start we say, "Oh, God of Abraham, God of we we start from far like he's but God wants to say, I want you to to know that I am with Jess. I'm with Japheth. I'm with your neighbor. I am close. I am here Emmanuel today, Emmanuel." Literally, God with us. And so he says, "Build me a sanctuary that I may dwell amongst them." Then he continues on and says, "According to all that I will show you after the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make it." So the the sanctuary or the tabernacle wasn't man's thinking or the afterthought of man that oh I think we should build something for God. No, it is God who came up with this idea. And God says, I want to live with my people. I want to live amongst my people. And as we said, the sanctuary was almost key to the Jewish economy. The temple was in Jerusalem, which is like the capital city. And everything revolved around the sanctuary. God desiring to be with his people. Amen. Amen. They didn't just come up with that funny idea. You know, Moses didn't sleep and say, "Let's put it like this." It is a pattern that God showed them. What existed was a pattern that had already existed. talk to us about now how how the details we see in the book of revelation. Yeah, exactly. So in the book of revelation, we find Jesus Christ in every single part of the sanctuary of um of the new of the of the holy place of the sanctuary. First of all, we find Christ standing um before the golden candlesticks in the book of Revelation chapter 1 um verse 12. We see that um um when when John turns, he actually sees Christ as the high priest walking up and down in the midst of the seven branched uh sorry the seven candlesticks. And then in the book of Revelation chapter 4 and chapter 5, we actually do find um a a like almost a symbol like a description of heaven. And on heaven, we find a description of a throne. And then in the throne in chapter 5, we find the description of what? of the lamb as it had been slain slain just as it had been slain. Now if you go to the old testament and look at the table of shub and the description of what the table of shbre is I believe it's in Leviticus 24 we find that it is a it's it's called a sacrifice most holy unto the Lord. So right there you find Christ there as the shoebre um h upon um a representation of the throne. And then now in the book of revelation chapter um chapter 7 sorry chapter 8 we find another angel that is offering up incense. And this angel um uh h a if you look at chap chapter 10 you find this angel is none other than Jesus Christ because this angel is standing and he has um a a a sensor in his hand and he has much incense. He should offer it with the prayers of the saints. So Christ is where? At the altar of incense. So Christ is uh in the midst of the candlesticks. Christ is at the table of shbre. Christ is at the altar of incense. So it's actually the the book of revelation is broken down to show us the ministration of Christ in the different parts of the holy place of the sanctuary in heaven. Amen. Amen. So um uh I say this to actually help us to appreciate the extreme importance of understanding the value of the sanctuary. And how does this tie into the book of Psalms? In the book of Psalms, I gave you Psalm 77:13. But in Psalm 122, we find uh David speaking again saying, "I was glad when they said unto me, let us go where?" To the house of the Lord of the Lord. And he gives a description of of of how blessed a thing it is to be in Jerusalem to worship God in the temple of God. Again, a a a strong reference to what? To the sanctuary, to h to the temple of God, to the temple within which the high priest uh as the as the chiefest figure, the chiefest human entity um in the old system was ministering. You know, it's very interesting that David when he speaks of the house of the Lord, he was actually not speaking of a temple that had been built. He was speaking of his interaction with the sanctuary. For him, the house of God was the sanctuary. When he writes, I was glad when they told me, "Let's go to the sanctuary." He was happy. Actually, it is. And you said he went to the sanctuary and he said, "Thy way, oh God, is not anywhere else. It is in your sanctuary." I think it is in Psalm 78 where David also writes and says that he was confused. He was wondering how come the evil are prospering of the wicked. How come the wicked are prospering and I am not doing well? I am righteous. I'm doing what is right. Until he walked into the sanctuary and then he saw their and then he saw their end. He probably I don't know he probably looked at the burnt offering. He saw how this lamb that has sin is being is being burnt and being destroyed and consumed. And he saw surely the end of the wicked is is to be consumed entirely. Most likely actually the day of atonement at at the at at the time when sin does come to a complete end. so that all those wicked people, the wicked things they were doing, all that iniquity would 100% be brought to a complete end once that um the goat of Aazel is taken by a strong man into the wilderness and and and at that moment um you you have almost repeated every single year that symbol of the end of sin. The end of sin. So David seeing that was satisfied even if he saw all the wickedness that unfortunately was always surrounding him. he even if he saw them prospering. Very interesting. And a few things he talks about in Psalms 122. My brother, maybe if you can just elaborate some of those of what the house of God represented to David. Actually, I think there's one verse which right now I cannot remember. But he says, "I would rather be a a beggar, a gatekeeper, right, in the house of God. I would rather be a gatekeeper in the house of God rather than dwell with the wicked." He would rather He was happy. He was comforted by just being in the house of God. It is in the house of God he found rest. It is in the house of God he understood the way of God. It was in that house where he understood why the wicked will perish and why the righteous at the end even if today the righteous do seems to be suffering even to even if today it seems to be a difficult day and yet those who are wicked seem to be prospering. He found his answers in the sanctuary. Maybe speak to us of what the of what he might have seen in the house of God. What it represented to him in Psalm 122. Psalms 122. Maybe we'll read it very very quickly. It's an interesting song. I I think there are some artists who have sung it as a scripture song and at your own time maybe you can look at it. It says, "David sings and says, I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord." Then he says, "Our feet shall stand within thy gates, oh Jerusalem. Jerusalem is build asth that is compact together." And says, "Whether the tribes go up, the tribes of the Lord into the testimony of Israel, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the Lord. For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David." He says, "Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They shall prosper that love thee. Peace be within thy walls and prosperity within thy palaces. For my brethren and companion sakes, I will say now, peace be within thee. Because of the house of the Lord our God, I will seek thy good. Amen. Jerusalem is significant not because it was a capital city, but because of the house of the Lord God. It was founded in Jerusalem. And so when he's saying he was glad when they said unto him, "Let us go into the house of the Lord," he's he he's he's glorifying and he's speaking about the beauties of Jerusalem because of the house of the Lord, not because of anything else. You know, cities are famous, Paris is famous because of the Eiffel Tower. There are many things uh for which uh cities are known for. But for David, when he thinks about Jerusalem, he's thinking about going before the presence of God. Amen. And so, uh, to for David, Jerusalem was where the tribes go up. It was where they go to pay homage to God, where they go to be in the presence of God, where they go to be blessed, where they go to find peace and prosperity. He knows that Jerusalem as a capital city isn't the city of power, but rather it is where the house of God, who is the almighty, was founded. Amen. Amen. Amen. You know he says peace and prosperity. You know I don't know what you find when you go to church today. Is your church a place of peace? Is your church a place where you go and you feel oo I'm in the house of my father? I want to tell you today that even if your 7th day Adventist church does not represent this. The sanctuary here on earth was not made after the patterns in our churches. It was made after the pattern of the heavenly sanctuary. That means we are looking forward to the true house of the Lord. A place of peace, a place of prosperity indeed is coming. True Jerusalem, the new Jerusalem will be your place of safety. and and for David he must have have looked upon this and wondered asked himself this place for me he's for him to say I would rather be a gatekeeper how did he perceive the house of God even as we move on to to the Monday part even as we move on to the m how did he perceive the the house of God indeed for David uh the house of God was a place of refuge indeed even in his story there's a time when he was fleeing from Saul and he went into the temple and in the temple the priests fed a hungry David and his men with the shoebreak. You know, for David, God when David is speaking about God being a refuge, he he has experienced it literally. He has sat under the shadow of the most high. When he he he's speaking about he's speaking from experience, he's speaking as as as a fugitive running away from the government of the day, persecuted by the Philistines and persecuted also at home, at home and away. And in the midst of all these, David says, I lift up my eyes to the hills from cometh my help. And then he says, "My help cometh from the Lord." And where is the Lord? The Lord is in his sanctuary. The Lord is in his tabernacle. And so for David, he he's he when he he takes pleasure in being in the presence of God. He takes pleasure in in in in in where the ark of the of God's presence is. And and and and and for for because of his experience, David speaks greatly. But I also I would also like to believe that David is also a bit prophetic in part of his psalms. For example, in Psalms 15 now as we transition into Monday, he speaks and says, Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? Then he answers the question and says, he that walks what? I proudly and walketh righteousness and speaketh the truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up reproach against his neighbor, in whose eyes a vile person is condemned, condemned, and but he honest honestth them that fear the Lord. He that swearth to his own heart and changeeth not. He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent. For he that doeth these things shall never be moved. He's asking the question ultimately, who shall abide in the tabernacle? Who shall dwell in his holy hill? And then he comes again in Psalms 24, if we uh if you may permit us to read it very quickly, he says, "The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and they that dwell therein. For he had founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods." Then he asked the question in verse three again, who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? Cont says, he that has what? Clean hands, a pure heart, who has not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. He says, "This is generation of them that seek after him, that seek thy face, oh Jacob. Lift up your heads, oh ye gates, and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors." and the king of glory shall come in. Then the question is asked, who is this king of glory? You realize all these are prophetic passages almost it's almost as if David got a glimpse of of things. I wonder whether he understood them himself, you know, and and as we shall see as as we as we as we go on, we realize indeed Mount Zion or the presence of the Lord is for those who have the character that is like the character of God. So this holy hill he's speaking of it's as though God gave him a glimpse of those who will stand at the end. You know, I read in the book of Obadiah verse 17 and the Bible says, "But upon Mount Zion shall be the shall be deliverance." The deliverance of God's people will be at Mount Zion and there shall be holiness and the house of Jo Jacob shall possess their possessions that on Mount Zion stands holiness. Let me ask you who are these people that David describes and say they st who will stand on the holy hill? Who what is the character of these people? Who are these people who eventually stand on the holy hill? Obadiah says that place on Mount Zion will be a place of holiness. Amen. In the book of Revelation chapter 14 because and again this is it just tells me just how connected the scripture is. Revelation 14:1 we are told I looked and lo a lamb stood on which mountain? Mount Zion and with him 144,000 having his father's name written in their foreheads. And again we are told in verse four the character of these individuals that they have they had not defiled themselves with women. In this case it is not literal. It is that there is a particular woman here who's called uh Babylon in Revelation 17 and her daughters uh who would corrupt and and these people do not defile themselves with Babylon or the systems of Babylon for they are virgins and and h these are they which go follow the lamb whethersoever he goeth. They were redeemed from among men being the first fruits unto God and to the lamb. And in their mouth was found no guil. Again, not that they had never sinned. It's that having received the forgiveness of Jesus Christ and having put on the righteousness of Christ, number one, they are justified fully. And number two, they have walked with Jesus and have been sanctified day by day up until now. This verse five is not a lie. It's not a lie. It's not it's it's not that it's like a legal, you know, like a legal. It's actually 100% as a fact that their sins in the past are forgiven and truly they have been transformed such that they are found with no guile and they without fault before the throne of God. Amen. How beautiful. You know it's as if David will ask is there anyone who would be found worthy to stand on this heel of holiness? Is there anyone? Revelation 14 answers and gives us an answer to that question that indeed in the last days there will rise up a generation in whose mouth there will be no g. Why? David said in the book of Psalm 15 that the people who will stand on this hill they walk uprightly they work righteousness and they speak truth. There is no guide in their mouth. There is going to be a generation on this earth who indeed the devil will come and he will find nothing in them. They have no G. They are righteous. They have not defiled themselves with the wine of Babylon. There will be a generation. David would ask, "Who is this?" Oh, they're going to be there. They are their 144,000. And something um um very interesting. Let's just look at um when we look at um Revelation 14, let us just think of the character of these people and what God is promising his people. He says there there are there is going to be such a generation of people. How do these people get to a point where we can say indeed there is no G in their mouths? How do they obtain this victory? Indeed. Um in essence um in in in in all practicality, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Amen. And these 144,000 are not standing in any merits in and of themselves, but they are standing on the merits of the faith that they have exercised in the lamb of God who was slain from the foundation of the world. And so it is there is no other there's no other power that can enable us to stand as the 144,000 or with the 144,000 except as we exercise faith in Christ the lamb of God. Indeed um we can we are told that uh this 144,000 have an experience. They have a song you know which they sing and songs usually are attached to experiences the things that they have passed through. They have passed through tribulation. They have passed through trials but their faith was the victory. Their faith was the victory. Their dependence on God and on Christ and on the merits of his blood. And it is it is on this uh on on on this um certification. It is only o on these grounds that they are they have gotten to where they are. They have exercised perfect faith in the perfect lamb of God. Amen. Amen. I pray that you can see this that we can all stand on that holy heel. Not because we have done anything special, but because we have received the merits of our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, gave himself for us, shed his blood, that his that blood may cleanse us to indeed ensure that on that holy hill, Jesus our the that lamp we can stand next to him. And you know the Bible says um as we move on to this Tuesday part that these people who stand on that holy hill they have the name of the father and the lamb written on their hearts. There's a very famous quotation by um Shakespeare he writes and ask you know what is in a name you know a rose called by any other name it will still be it still smells as sweet. But does the Bible teach us that what is in a name? So what's in a name? Um there are several times over that names are extremely important. Uh there was Abraham and e almost in answer to in in in confirmation of a promise. He he he changed the name of Abraham to what? Abraham. Abraham and Sarai to Sarah. Sara indicating almost like God has breathed into them um uh uh uh in in in connection with the promise that he has given them. Again we have another persons whose name is Yakob Jacob which means what supplerant deceiver and his name is changed to what? Israel Israel which is a prince with God victory something like that victory with God prince with God with God and prevails and prevails. Yes. So again you see like the names are very important in the in the New Testament someone's name is is uh Emmanuel which means what? God with us. God with us. Um in the book of Isaiah we know that Isaiah's sons are given special names. A very long name. There's another I think it's Mahal Shazbas. It's like the Lord will have victory. I'm paraphrasing and I think it mean the Lord will have victory and will give total victory. In the book of um I don't know where it's there's lo am army and l roama there are two sons and then their names will be changed to what ami and ruama from the lord will not have mercy and these are not my people to the lord will have mercy and these are my people so names are are so important in the bible consistently and um and and so when it says that they have the father's name in their forehead the 144,000 it has a special significance of of having the father's character within the foreheads of those individuals. What we just read in re in the book of revelation, a father the the the a name represents the character. The name represents the character and you know in the book of Exodus we will see in the book of Exodus um chapter 33. First of all um Moses pleads with God and says God I have been walking with you time and time again. it is just about time that I saw you. And he pleads with God that he may have an experience to see this person that he has been um talking to, conversing with constantly. And God gives gives him a promise and tells him, I will make my glory pass by you. I will make my glory pass by you. And eventually in Exodus chapter 34, God fulfills his promise. What does he do? He passes by Moses but his eyes are covered. And as God is passing, he declares himself. He reveals his glory. But how does he reveal his glory? Is it in some is it in some shining light, some dazzling light or lightning or thunders? No, he gently comes and declares his name. The Bible tells us that God himself actually, it is very interesting that when he proclaims his name, he says things that relate to his very character. This is what the Bible says in Exodus 34:5. And the Lord descended in the cloud and stood with him there and proclaimed the name of the Lord. And this is the name he gave. And the Lord passed before him and proclaimed the Lord the Lord God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering and abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children's children, and to the third and to the fourth generation. For me, I find this to be very comforting. You know, God could have presented himself in several ways. God has many attributes including God is holy, including God is all powerful, including God is omnisient. He would have come and said, "This is the Lord God, all knowing, possessing all power in the earth, full of holiness, and indeed I am of purer eyes that I cannot behold evil. He could have said that and those truly are his attributes. But God chooses to proclaim himself in the greatest attributes that shows us who he truly is that we can relate with him. Just tell talks of his mercy, talks of his forgiveness, talks of a God who is gracious, talks of a God who is longsuffering. He forgets and he veils all these other attributes and shows us the greatest attribute he wants to reveal his character through. Says my character is found in mercy. It is found in forgiveness. And guess what? There are 144,000 have this name written on their forehead that they serve a merciful God. It is not that they were not sinners. It is that their God is merciful. They have this name written on their forehead that their God forgives iniquity. They have this name written on their forehead that God forgives transgression and takes away sin. And they have this name written on their forehead that he will not clear the guilty. Why? Because he has extended mercy. They have refused to accept his mercy. This is the name written on the forehead of the 144,000. the men who stand on that holy hill. What is God's intention in replicating this in the children in the in the hearts of men? Tell us what God wants to do in our hearts. Not just the 144,000 we speak of, but what does God want to do in our hearts? Brother Rafa, I think um sometimes we argue about uh we can pontificate about the 144,000 and the great multitude, but the P of inspiration tells us as as much as we read about this, let this one thing be clear that the 144,000 are special in terms in that the only thing that makes them special is their experience. But in terms of character, all who enter into heaven must have the same character. And what is that character? the character of God. And therefore, we should strive to be like the 144,000. Not necessarily to be among them. If it is if it is within you a lot by the mercies of God and by his grace to be among them, well and good. But this one thing, the 144,000 will only be different in their experience. But in terms of character, all who will enter heaven from Adam to the very last person to be saved will have this one thing, the law of God in their hearts, which is the character of God. It reminds me of that song that says, "Some through the water, some through the fire, but all through the blood." Amen. All through the lamb. Amen. Amen. Amen. And I think this is a very good segue now to just go into the contract. We've seen what happens to the 144,000. But I want us to contrast between the the holy children of God. What happens to them versus what happens to the wicked. Thank you. Um in this is uh Psalm chaps Psalm 5, the Wednesday part. Yes. So um when we are studying Psalm 5, um we uh we actually end up finding something that that we can see pictured in Revelation chapter 14. We saw the 144,000. They have no guile in their mouths. We saw that they are guiltless and and we saw how they are guiltless. We saw it's not that they just suddenly, you know, they were always that way. They were just like all of us. Um 1 Corinthians chapter 6, I think verse 9 to 111, uh Paul lists a bunch of sins. He says fornication, um all manner of sexual vice, um um even evil, murder and all the rest. But then in verse 11, he says what? But such were some of you, but you are washed. So you're made clean. And you are made clean. So um friend, I really hope you do not um see these people as some other group. They're just like the rest of us. It's just that um h being serious with the offer that Christ gives of cleansing. They have overcome with the blood of the lamb. Amen. But now of the other side. And I think also uh just to encourage uh the the the the uh our brothers and our sisters and encouraging ourselves even self uh it says it is God who wills it who puts it in you both to will and to do of his own good pleasure that once we have submitted to God he even gives us the power. You know grace not only covers for our past but it also fuels our future and our present. And so it they they simply collaborate with God. We say all saints were once sinners. Amen. Yeah. Psalm 50:5, "Gather my saints together. They that have made a covenant with me by sacrif." That's the only biblical definition of saint. They that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. Sometimes we have an idea of saint is this holy person who just sits somewhere and prays all the time. Who can pray for you? Who who is sinless? Who who who performs miracles? No. In fact, Paul himself as an apostle is a wonderful example. Paul killed Christians. Yes. Until he met Christ and he had a Damascus experience. And this same Paul dies for this gospel for which he was killing others. Amen. Amen. Anyway, now let's focus on Psalm five. I know we have been taken but it's a very important point of full salvation from the uttermost like know from the guttermost to the uttermost from the lowest point to the highest point. But Psalm 5 uh is a symbol of of of what God does unfortunately to the wicked. We are told in verse four, um, thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness, neither shall evil dwell with thee. We have sometimes a false view of God, um, on the one hand, thinking that he is too um, like he's just so he's too severe. But then on the other hand, we may think that he is so soft that he can't even hurt. No, God is a God of justice. And there are times that once mercy has lingered and then a line has been crossed, the judgment shall be sent. Uh verse four, we are told, "Thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness, neither shall evil dwell with thee." On the other hand, remember we saw that the righteous dwell freely in the presence of the lamb without any fear. They're walking freely, knowing that um uh Christ has received and has redeemed them. Again we are told in verse 7, but as for me I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercy and in thy fear I will worship towards thy holy temple. But what of the wicked? There is no faithfulness in their mouth. Speaking of the wicked uh h their inward part is very wickedness. Their throat is an open separ. They flatter with their tongues. Remember the other tongues had no g. But these tongues they flatter with their tongues. Their mouth is an open sea. What is that? It's like your mouth is an open grave. What is an open grave? An open grave is like is is is is it the an emanation of the most vile and contemptable thing death. It's the smell of death. Basically on the tongue is life and death. Yes. And in this case, it is death that is coming out of some people's mouths. My friend, I really hope that this is not your case. A s of death unto death. Yes. But if that is the case, choose life and choose Jesus Christ. Otherwise, you shall be classed among this group. And then in verse verse 10 we are told eh from David to God destroy thou them oh God let them fall by their own counselss. This is not an unfair and unjust punishment. This is from it's almost like it's something they deserve unfortunately having rejected the mercy that comes from heaven. Cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions for they have rebelled against thee. And I always like stressing that God's actions are actions of justice. In the book of John chapter 3 19, you know, we love chapter vers 16. Very wonderful. But in verse 18, 19, we are told that those who are condemned, this is the condemnation that is come into the world that men what? Light came into the world, but men loved darkness rather than light. Amen. The condemnation is that dark that that when light came, people rejected that light. So here people are rebelling against that that a against the God that would have saved them. But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice. Let them shout for joy because thou defendest them. Let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. So this is is is is a very interesting contrast to what we find in Revelation chapter 14. Revelation 14, God's people who had been going through troub times. Maybe they were the ones who are who who who received um the the afflictions of those tongues, those mouths that were open sepas. They themselves are now standing in joy and in bliss um beside the lamp. On the other hand, these ones unfortunately are are are it there's it's a phrase that I don't like, but it is a fact almost like bundles that are being prepared to be burnt. Very unfortunate. If you reject the mercy that God offers, then unfortunately there is a judgment that is coming. We know that hell was prepared for the devil and his angels. But if we ally with Satan in perpetuating his spirit and his character, then unfortunately the judgment that would justly come to the devil and his angels, we will receive except we repent. You know the Bible, it's very interesting that it says that even their inward part is wickedness. It is wickedness. You know, no sinner will be lost because mercy was not provided. These people are lost because they choose to reject the mercies of God. My brother, my sister, I hope you're not rejecting the mercies of God. Every single time he is calling out to you. He is telling you, come back. Come back, my people. I plead with you that you may accept his mercies. That indeed you will not be those ones who are wicked within. Those who have vile mouths, vile lips, tongues that are very harsh, you know, those people who taught back to their husbands or their fathers or their mothers, the the lips you need that mouth that is an open sppla versus those we saw in the book of Psalms 15 and Psalms 24 that they speak truth in their hearts. They have no gu. their hands are clean. It's interesting that the description of of of of a height of sin is not even murder or whatever. It is killing with the tongue. That's like and and sometimes we don't appreciate just how awful that is. Um how how how terrible it is. Uh there's a description that um that is given by Ellen White um that it's almost like somebody is served on the plate. You know it's somebody is served on the plate on the dining like on the table like their servings of a person. You know a person is described when a pastor comes and a pastor has some controversy surrounding them. The person is cut up into pieces. The family goes home and what they having for dinner is not food. It is a plate with a with a breast and you're just discussing a pastor. the gizad like somebody has cut the part of the pastor or the part of the elder or the part of this other person that they wish to discuss and and just chew on you know it is unfortunately it's called tea you know and they say pass me the plate I would also like to have some some some bits of that person let me discuss further the tongue the tongue that Christ is speaking of he says this tongue these are the wicked people that will be destroyed but what is the natural response of those who have been saved and redeemed D by Christ. What is the natural response? Indeed, I would like to echo uh the last verse of Psalms 5:12. It says, "For thou, Lord wilt bless the righteous. With favor wil thou compass him as with a shield." I think indeed the Lord has done wonderful things and he continues to do wondrous things for his children. And one of the greatest decisions a man or a woman can ever make, one of the most critical decisions a one can ever make is to align their lives with God to align them themselves with the blood stained banner of Prince Emmanuel. And we're told that um in Isaiah uh as we had read from verse one to around 7 and and uh the Bible continues and tells us that once Isaiah answered the call of who shall go for us, the next thing that Isaiah hears is the commands of God. And what is the command of God? The Bible says in verse 9, God sends Isaiah and says, "Go and tell these people, hear ye indeed. Hear ye indeed, but understand ye not, and ye see indeed, but ye perceive not." Once we have been um been um been converted, once we have been introduced to this Jesus, to this savior. In fact, in the book Great Controversy, I believe is page 57, it says the very first instinct in instinct of a converted heart is to bring others also to the savior. To tell others also to the savior like the disciple when he once they had seen John the Baptist speak of behold the lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He goes to others and says come and see somebody whom I have heard. Come and and and and the disciples lead one another to Christ. Eventually they come to to Nathaniel and they tell him that indeed they have seen the messiah we have seen the Messiah and and Nathaniel says can anything good come out of Nazareth? It is because those who had met with Christ had that power had that energy had that drive in fact uh Paul says that um that the the love of Christ constrains us. There's the it is almost natural. It's like an a volcanic eruption of or once salvation is in your heart, you want to go out and shout it. And uh in fact, they say, "Go tell it on the mountains, over the hills, and everywhere." And so David uh as he's mourning in that psalm of his repentance, which is Psalms 51, uh uh David is is is is contemplating his his his situation. Um and uh this is after the prophet Nathan has come to him and told him you had that man. You've taken another man's wife. You've killed that man. Whatever what you have done is wrong. You've abused power. You've abused privilege and you have sinned before God. And now David comes to a point of mourning and we pick up the sto the psalm in Psalm 7 and he says he's repenting. He says purge me with high soap and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Conan says, "Hide thy face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities." He says, "Create in me a clean heart, oh God, and renew a right spirit within me." He pleads with God, "Cast me not away from thy presence and take not thy holy spirit from me." Amen. Amen. He's not saying Lord don't take the king kingship away from me. Don't take my wealth away from me. David says if there's one thing that he has desired is to be in the presence of the Lord. He says cast me not away from thy presence and do not take away from me your holy spirit. He says in verse 12, restore unto me the joy of your salvation. You know, there's a joy that we have when we are in relationship and in right standing with God. There's a peace that surpasses understanding. Though the storms around us may be raging, though the thunder may roll and lightning may flash, if Jesus is within our hearts, there's that peace. There's that joy of when we are in communion with God, when we we have the assurance of salvation. He continues and says, "Uphold me with thy free spirit." Then he says in verse 13, "After I have been saved, after I have repented, after I have been forgiven, then I will teach transgressors thy ways." Amen. "And sinners will be converted unto thee." Amen. It speaks to us of the attitude of the redeemed, the attitude of the saved, that they go out and minister. And it's like if you've discovered something nice, something pure, something sweet, you don't hide it, but you go out and share it with others. Amen. Amen. Um, Jaff in the book of Revelation, just coming back to the book of Revelation that we are studying this quarter. It's interesting that these are the last days we are living in. But I don't see human beings preaching. I'm just seeing angels flying around and giving messages. If the natural response of the converted heart is to go out and preach, who are the people preaching in the book of Revelation? Exactly. In the Revelation 14:6, we find um uh a a great commission that is given to them. They are told, it says, "I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to them that dwell on the earth and to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, fear God, and give glory, give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come." So who are these people who bear the the everlasting gospel. This angel is actually a symbol. It is the book of Revelation is a book of symbols. It is a symbol of the church itself. It is the church that is to go out to give this message to everyone everywhere. In fact, in the book of Revelation chapter 10, the very same uh message of uh having something to be given to nations, kindled tongue people, we are told it is John who is doing it. And John again is clearly a symbol of of God's people at a particular time. Revelation 10 11 it says, "Thou must prophesy again before nations, peoples, tongues, and kings." So clearly it is actually it is not angels. In fact it's something interesting that Rafael pointed out that in the book of Isaiah chapter 6 after the in the presence of all those angels the one who answered the question um who will go for us was a human being it was Isaiah who said um I will go basically I he here am I send me. So it is actually God's people today. We are to do that work of spreading the everlasting gospel everywhere. Amen. Amen. Clearly it is not angels flying around. Truly they are appear they are shown as though they are angels because they move swiftly. It's an urgent message. And my brother, my sister, this message is urgent that you go out the same way you have been redeemed. May you go out as well and do the work of redeeming others. Well, that is it. I would want us to conclude here with a key takeaway that God is finishing his work of perfecting his saints. He wants to stand on Mount Zion with a holy people, a people without ging their mouths. He wants to stand on Mount Zion with you and I. And before he does that, he wants you to rely on his blood. Rely on his merits to obtain victory over sin. And once you have obtained that victory over sin, he wants you to go out, bring others so that on Mount Zion, you do not stand alone with Jesus. You stand with your family. You stand with your friends. You stand with your church. May you not stand alone on Mount Zion. With that, I want us to close there with a word of prayer. Kindly pray with us as we close. Okay, let's pray. Everlasting father, we thank you so much that you have taken us through uh this uh study. We had prayed in the beginning for more of your spirit and each of us uh can sense that you have really worked through us to uh to help us uh uh guide and uh this uh discussion. We ask your holy spirit may uh uh be the ears of all the hearers of this message that they may receive and apply this message that they may take more time to study the book of psalms more deeply and appreciate the special messages that are found therein in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[6.5s] Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you
[9.2s] so much for joining us today at New Life
[11.6s] 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifthgong
[13.7s] Avenue, Nairobi. From wherever you're
[15.9s] watching us from, good morning, good
[18.0s] afternoon, good evening. We are studying
[20.6s] the Sabbath school lesson today. And
[23.0s] with me, I am joined by two of my
[25.8s] friends. I would like them to introduce
[27.6s] themselves. Starting with you, brother
[29.4s] Rafael. My name is Enango Rafa Misa and
[32.1s] it's a pleasure to be here. And my
[33.9s] husband is also with us today. Kindly
[35.8s] introduce yourself. Thank you. My name
[37.5s] is Jafet Rono. Happy to be here. Amen.
[40.2s] Before we begin, would you kindly pray
[42.1s] with us today? Okay, let's pray.
[44.7s] Heavenly Father, we thank you so much
[46.2s] for the opportunity for this um uh
[48.5s] study. We are entering into a study of
[50.7s] the Psalms as they relate to prophecy
[53.0s] and the book of Revelation. We ask for
[55.1s] insight and understanding that your holy
[56.9s] spirit abide with us that Jesus Christ
[59.4s] may be revealed in this discussion in
[61.8s] Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[64.6s] Thank you once again brothers and
[66.0s] sisters for joining us. This is now
[68.2s] lesson eight. We have studied eight
[71.0s] lessons so far. I hope you have been
[73.3s] following us um through this study
[75.6s] discussion. We ask you to interact with
[77.8s] us, ask questions, contribute, give your
[80.2s] comments for this lesson as we continue
[82.6s] studying together. Today we are looking
[85.4s] at the book of Psalms. You know, we are
[87.1s] studying images, illusions, symbols as
[91.0s] used in prophetic books of the Bible to
[94.3s] help us to understand the prophecy that
[96.6s] is relevant in these last days. And some
[99.7s] would wonder, how would we go to the
[102.5s] book of Psalms for illusions and
[104.7s] symbols? You know the Bible writes and
[106.9s] says I think it is in the book of
[108.5s] Colossians that you know admonish one
[111.4s] another using whats using Psalms.
[114.2s] Admonish one another using Psalms. I
[116.7s] have friends of mine who study the book
[118.7s] of Psalms whenever they are seeking
[120.8s] encouragement when they want to see the
[123.4s] light of the word of God especially in
[126.2s] their lowest moments. The book of Psalms
[129.0s] also has a lot to tell us of what God is
[132.6s] doing for his church in these last days.
[135.8s] I want us to start by reading our key
[137.9s] text today. Brother Rafael, kindly read
[140.2s] for us Revelation 14 verse1. Revelation
[144.9s] 14:1 says, reading from the New King
[147.4s] James Version, then I looked and behold
[149.7s] a lamb standing on Mount Zion and with
[152.0s] him 144,000 having his father's name
[155.6s] written on their foreheads.
[157.5s] There are
[159.5s] 144,000 standing on Mount Zion. I do
[163.0s] think I have reference of Mount Zion in
[165.1s] the book of Revelation. But the there's
[167.6s] one place which speaks about Mount Zion.
[170.4s] Even before we interact with it in the
[172.6s] book of Revelation, we see um David
[176.2s] constantly speaking of this Zion, of
[179.4s] this place where he would want to dwell
[182.1s] with God. And I just want us to go
[184.2s] there. Um if we can start with you
[186.6s] brother Jaffet please please just speak
[188.7s] to us about David's relationship with
[192.2s] the house of God how he interacted with
[194.5s] it and what he felt about it. Thank you.
[197.1s] I think even before we do that we would
[199.1s] understand uh the most central figure in
[202.6s] the sanctuary because David does
[204.2s] reference the sanctuary very often. The
[205.7s] most central figure in the sanctuary was
[208.5s] the high priest because um not only was
[211.5s] he present, he was one of the priests
[213.0s] who could take part in the daily
[215.2s] sacrifices morning and evening, but he
[217.6s] played a very key role during one very
[219.8s] important event, the day of atonement.
[222.7s] Now, uh we are told in the book of
[224.8s] Hebrews um unequivocally that Jesus
[227.7s] Christ is a representation um um of of
[231.0s] the high priests. Actually for the last
[233.1s] many many um weeks we've actually been
[235.7s] reviewing the different symbols in the
[237.8s] sanctuary. Um over and over especially
[239.8s] it has come to us that the lamb um a
[242.3s] very central figure is none other than
[244.1s] who? Jesus Christ and so is the high
[246.5s] priest. In the book of Hebrews um
[248.4s] chapter uh 9 reading verse 11 to 15 you
[251.9s] find a description of the high priest
[253.4s] and what Christ is doing as a
[255.4s] representation of as the antitype as the
[258.3s] fulfillment of the high priest in
[259.8s] heaven. Uh it we're told but Christ be
[262.9s] being come an high priest of good things
[264.8s] to come by a greater and more perfect
[267.5s] tabernacle not made with hands that is
[270.1s] to say not of this construction not the
[272.7s] way you and I construct buildings um uh
[275.9s] or they're constructed here on earth
[277.8s] Christ not by men not by human beings
[280.5s] yeah no matter how glorious I think um
[282.7s] uh two or three lessons ago we had
[285.3s] discussed about how the temple became
[287.0s] more glorious you know but even then
[289.4s] they were they they were fallible they
[291.9s] were broken they were twice actually
[294.0s] they were destroyed yes the first time
[296.2s] Solomon's and Herods um is it of these
[300.2s] people like Abraham who we are told in
[302.4s] the book of Hebrews that they looked
[304.4s] forward to a city whose maker was God
[307.8s] like something made differently amen yes
[310.9s] so now Christ in fulfillment of the the
[314.0s] the type in the old testament is a high
[317.0s] priest of the heavenly sanctuary neither
[319.1s] by the blood of bulls and goats and
[321.6s] calves, but by his own blood he has
[323.9s] entered once into the holy place, having
[327.3s] obtained eternal redemption for us. And
[330.1s] that's precisely what Christ did. Christ
[332.2s] entered once into the into the holy
[333.8s] places into the tabernacle that is um
[336.2s] the holy place of um uh of the sanctuary
[338.6s] in heaven uh to actually do that work of
[341.2s] intercession that the high priest here
[343.0s] on earth used to do. And I remember
[345.7s] again uh because we are really
[347.7s] referencing a lot of what we had studied
[349.2s] before of the high priest of how we had
[351.8s] discussed very clearly that those uh
[355.3s] bulls and those goats the many of them
[357.4s] multitudes which even at a time in the
[359.6s] book of Isaiah Christ God had rejected
[362.5s] uh receiving we know that they didn't
[364.9s] truly uh bring cleansing because there
[367.5s] are only symbols only types but Christ
[369.8s] himself is the one who can truly cleanse
[371.8s] us and and and interestingly Even Moses,
[376.1s] even Abraham, even Adam, every single
[378.6s] person in the Old Testament was looking
[380.5s] forward to the work that Christ is even
[382.7s] presently doing um in h in in heaven for
[385.5s] all of us. So um I remember when I was
[388.2s] studying um the day of atonement, I know
[391.5s] we uh touching it in this lesson. We're
[393.5s] touching maybe in in some future lessons
[396.2s] that the high priest during the day of
[398.5s] atonement was a a such a key figure.
[401.8s] Clearly even in the text it says that he
[403.8s] was a representation of all Israel. It's
[407.1s] the same way that you and I now by faith
[409.7s] obviously by trusting that Christ did
[411.9s] that work for us that we appreciate that
[414.2s] Christ did um does continue to intercede
[417.3s] on our behalf in heaven. Uh continuing
[420.3s] verse 13. For if the blood of bulls, of
[422.8s] goats, the ashes of an hephera, and the
[425.0s] sprinkling um the unclean sanctifies to
[427.7s] the purifying of the flesh, how much
[429.6s] more shall the blood of Christ, who
[431.5s] through the eternal spirit offered
[433.4s] himself without spot um of to God to pge
[437.7s] your conscience from dead works to serve
[439.8s] the living God. And again we are told
[442.1s] for this cause because of this because
[444.2s] he serves at such a higher
[446.8s] stage stage and status um he is
[449.9s] therefore the mediator of a new
[451.7s] testament almost in a sense the new
[454.1s] agreement which god himself had promised
[456.8s] um in the old testament. So all of this
[459.6s] is is it's almost like um all of these
[462.6s] were wonderful lessons and gifts that
[464.6s] God had packaged in the Old Testament
[467.0s] within the sanctuary system that were
[469.3s] awaiting fulfillment in Christ. And all
[471.5s] these things we'll see are things that
[473.0s] David himself was a witness to. In fact
[476.0s] um one of the most interesting um verses
[479.0s] I remember um when I came to because let
[482.1s] me be honest um very few Christians are
[485.1s] keen on the sanctuary system. Very few.
[487.4s] It's unfortunate. If you study Psalm
[490.8s] 77:13, what does it say? Thy way, oh
[493.6s] Lord, is in the sanctuary. Sanctuary.
[496.2s] Thy way, oh God, is in the sanctuary. It
[498.3s] surprised me so much. I was wondering,
[499.5s] wait, what does that mean? Because in my
[501.2s] mind, I was just thinking it's Christ in
[503.0s] the cross and that's it. Yeah, it's
[505.0s] wonderful. Christ and the cross are
[506.6s] important but they are central precisely
[509.1s] because they were fulfillment of what
[511.2s] was in the sanctuary in the Old
[512.6s] Testament what God had promised through
[514.9s] so many of um the patriarchs of old and
[518.5s] and another interesting thing about the
[520.4s] sanctuary again before coming to the
[522.6s] psalms is that the same sanctuary
[524.7s] pattern the same sanctuary pieces that
[527.0s] um that are found in the old testament
[529.2s] in which Christ himself was a minister
[531.4s] are actually found in the book of
[533.0s] revelation. I know we are looking for
[534.2s] these connections between um uh between
[537.4s] Psalms and the book of Revelation. Um
[540.2s] just hold on to that though. I'm coming
[541.9s] back there so that you can tie it back
[543.6s] to the book of Revelation. But I want to
[545.3s] ask brother Raphael, what inspired the
[548.3s] children of Israel to to design the
[551.0s] sanctuary the way it was designed?
[552.9s] Indeed in the book of Exodus uh 25 and
[556.1s] verse 9 if I am not wrong we find uh
[559.0s] Moses uh the idea of the sanctuary in
[562.1s] and of itself is uh in accordance with
[566.6s] the pattern that God himself uh laid out
[570.5s] Exodus 25:9
[572.7s] uh in verse 8 God says let them make me
[576.8s] a sanctuary that I might dwell among
[579.5s] them the concept of a God who wants
[582.4s] wants to dwell with his people. It's a
[584.5s] concept of a God who wants to be
[587.9s] literally next to you. You know, he
[590.6s] doesn't want to be far. You know,
[591.8s] sometimes when we pray uh even in our
[594.4s] prayers, we start we say, "Oh, God of
[596.5s] Abraham, God of we we start from far
[599.0s] like he's but God wants to say, I want
[601.7s] you to to know that I am with Jess. I'm
[604.2s] with Japheth. I'm with your neighbor. I
[606.0s] am close. I am here Emmanuel today,
[608.6s] Emmanuel." Literally, God with us. And
[610.9s] so he says, "Build me a sanctuary that I
[613.2s] may dwell amongst them." Then he
[614.7s] continues on and says, "According to all
[617.0s] that I will show you after the pattern
[619.4s] of the tabernacle and the pattern of the
[621.8s] instruments thereof, even so shall ye
[624.2s] make it." So the the sanctuary or the
[626.6s] tabernacle wasn't man's thinking or the
[630.1s] afterthought of man that oh I think we
[632.2s] should build something for God. No, it
[634.2s] is God who came up with this idea. And
[636.8s] God says, I want to live with my people.
[639.4s] I want to live amongst my people. And as
[642.0s] we said, the sanctuary was almost key to
[645.5s] the Jewish economy. The temple was in
[647.8s] Jerusalem, which is like the capital
[649.3s] city. And everything revolved around the
[652.6s] sanctuary. God desiring to be with his
[655.0s] people. Amen. Amen. They didn't just
[657.4s] come up with that funny idea. You know,
[659.4s] Moses didn't sleep and say, "Let's put
[661.1s] it like this." It is a pattern that God
[664.0s] showed them. What existed was a pattern
[666.3s] that had already existed. talk to us
[668.6s] about now how how the details we see in
[671.9s] the book of revelation. Yeah, exactly.
[674.2s] So in the book of revelation, we find
[676.6s] Jesus Christ in every single part of the
[679.5s] sanctuary of um of the new of the of the
[682.9s] holy place of the sanctuary. First of
[684.9s] all, we find Christ standing um before
[688.2s] the golden candlesticks in the book of
[690.0s] Revelation chapter 1 um verse 12. We see
[693.2s] that um um when when John turns, he
[697.2s] actually sees Christ as the high priest
[699.5s] walking up and down in the midst of the
[701.8s] seven branched uh sorry the seven
[703.8s] candlesticks. And then in the book of
[706.2s] Revelation chapter 4 and chapter 5, we
[709.4s] actually do find um a a like almost a
[713.3s] symbol like a description of heaven. And
[715.8s] on heaven, we find a description of a
[717.7s] throne. And then in the throne in
[719.8s] chapter 5, we find the description of
[721.8s] what? of the lamb as it had been slain
[725.0s] slain just as it had been slain. Now if
[727.5s] you go to the old testament and look at
[729.5s] the table of shub and the description of
[731.5s] what the table of shbre is I believe
[733.6s] it's in Leviticus 24 we find that it is
[736.2s] a it's it's called a sacrifice most holy
[740.0s] unto the Lord. So right there you find
[742.2s] Christ there as the shoebre um h upon um
[747.1s] a representation of the throne. And then
[749.4s] now in the book of revelation chapter um
[752.2s] chapter 7 sorry chapter 8 we find
[754.7s] another angel that is offering up
[757.6s] incense. And this angel um uh h a if you
[761.8s] look at chap chapter 10 you find this
[763.6s] angel is none other than Jesus Christ
[765.8s] because this angel is standing and he
[768.2s] has um a a a sensor in his hand and he
[772.1s] has much incense. He should offer it
[774.0s] with the prayers of the saints. So
[775.9s] Christ is where? At the altar of
[778.3s] incense. So Christ is uh in the midst of
[781.6s] the candlesticks. Christ is at the table
[784.2s] of shbre. Christ is at the altar of
[787.2s] incense. So it's actually the the book
[789.7s] of revelation is broken down to show us
[792.0s] the ministration of Christ in the
[793.9s] different parts of the holy place of the
[795.9s] sanctuary in heaven. Amen. Amen. So um
[799.8s] uh I say this to actually help us to
[801.7s] appreciate the extreme importance of
[804.1s] understanding the value of the
[805.4s] sanctuary. And how does this tie into
[807.8s] the book of Psalms? In the book of
[809.2s] Psalms, I gave you Psalm 77:13. But in
[812.1s] Psalm 122, we find uh David speaking
[815.6s] again saying, "I was glad when they said
[818.2s] unto me, let us go where?" To the house
[821.1s] of the Lord of the Lord. And he gives a
[823.1s] description of of of how blessed a thing
[825.8s] it is to be in Jerusalem to worship God
[828.1s] in the temple of God. Again, a a a
[831.8s] strong reference to what? To the
[833.4s] sanctuary, to h to the temple of God, to
[836.8s] the temple within which the high priest
[838.9s] uh as the as the chiefest figure, the
[840.8s] chiefest human entity um in the old
[843.3s] system was ministering. You know, it's
[845.6s] very interesting that David when he
[848.2s] speaks of the house of the Lord, he was
[850.1s] actually not speaking of a temple that
[851.9s] had been built. He was speaking of his
[854.8s] interaction with the sanctuary. For him,
[857.7s] the house of God was the sanctuary. When
[860.8s] he writes, I was glad when they told me,
[863.0s] "Let's go to the sanctuary." He was
[865.3s] happy. Actually, it is. And you said he
[867.4s] went to the sanctuary and he said, "Thy
[869.5s] way, oh God, is not anywhere else. It is
[872.7s] in your sanctuary." I think it is in
[875.2s] Psalm 78 where David also writes and
[878.0s] says that he was confused. He was
[880.2s] wondering how come the evil are
[882.2s] prospering of the wicked. How come the
[884.2s] wicked are prospering and I am not doing
[886.3s] well? I am righteous. I'm doing what is
[888.5s] right. Until he walked into the
[891.2s] sanctuary and then he saw their and then
[893.0s] he saw their end. He probably I don't
[895.1s] know he probably looked at the burnt
[897.0s] offering. He saw how this lamb that has
[899.5s] sin is being is being burnt and being
[902.2s] destroyed and consumed. And he saw
[904.4s] surely the end of the wicked is is to be
[907.4s] consumed entirely. Most likely actually
[909.8s] the day of atonement at at the at at the
[913.0s] time when sin does come to a complete
[915.2s] end. so that all those wicked people,
[917.2s] the wicked things they were doing, all
[918.8s] that iniquity would 100% be brought to a
[922.4s] complete end once that um the goat of
[925.4s] Aazel is taken by a strong man into the
[928.1s] wilderness and and and at that moment um
[931.7s] you you have almost repeated every
[933.8s] single year that symbol of the end of
[936.2s] sin. The end of sin. So David seeing
[938.4s] that was satisfied even if he saw all
[941.0s] the wickedness that unfortunately was
[943.8s] always surrounding him. he even if he
[946.2s] saw them prospering. Very interesting.
[948.6s] And a few things he talks about in
[950.5s] Psalms 122. My brother, maybe if you can
[953.2s] just elaborate some of those of what the
[955.8s] house of God represented to David.
[958.3s] Actually, I think there's one verse
[959.8s] which right now I cannot remember. But
[961.6s] he says, "I would rather be a a beggar,
[965.0s] a gatekeeper, right, in the house of
[967.4s] God. I would rather be a gatekeeper in
[969.4s] the house of God rather than dwell with
[971.9s] the wicked." He would rather He was
[973.8s] happy. He was comforted by just being in
[976.6s] the house of God. It is in the house of
[978.4s] God he found rest. It is in the house of
[981.1s] God he understood the way of God. It was
[984.1s] in that house where he understood why
[986.7s] the wicked will perish and why the
[989.0s] righteous at the end even if today the
[991.0s] righteous do seems to be suffering even
[993.8s] to even if today it seems to be a
[996.3s] difficult day and yet those who are
[998.4s] wicked seem to be prospering. He found
[1000.9s] his answers in the sanctuary. Maybe
[1004.2s] speak to us of what the of what he might
[1007.1s] have seen in the house of God. What it
[1009.4s] represented to him in Psalm 122. Psalms
[1013.1s] 122. Maybe we'll read it very very
[1014.8s] quickly. It's an interesting song. I I
[1016.9s] think there are some artists who have
[1018.3s] sung it as a scripture song and at your
[1020.9s] own time maybe you can look at it. It
[1022.6s] says, "David sings and says, I was glad
[1025.1s] when they said unto me, let us go into
[1027.1s] the house of the Lord." Then he says,
[1029.8s] "Our feet shall stand within thy gates,
[1032.1s] oh Jerusalem. Jerusalem is build asth
[1035.5s] that is compact together." And says,
[1037.7s] "Whether the tribes go up, the tribes of
[1041.0s] the Lord into the testimony of Israel,
[1043.0s] unto the testimony of Israel, to give
[1045.3s] thanks unto the name of the Lord. For
[1047.8s] there are set thrones of judgment, the
[1050.0s] thrones of the house of David." He says,
[1052.3s] "Pray for the peace of Jerusalem. They
[1054.6s] shall prosper that love thee. Peace be
[1056.9s] within thy walls and prosperity within
[1059.2s] thy palaces. For my brethren and
[1061.4s] companion sakes, I will say now, peace
[1063.8s] be within thee. Because of the house of
[1066.6s] the Lord our God, I will seek thy good.
[1070.2s] Amen. Jerusalem is significant not
[1072.6s] because it was a capital city, but
[1075.0s] because of the house of the Lord God. It
[1079.2s] was founded in Jerusalem. And so when
[1081.1s] he's saying he was glad when they said
[1084.2s] unto him, "Let us go into the house of
[1086.4s] the Lord," he's he he's he's glorifying
[1090.4s] and he's speaking about the beauties of
[1091.8s] Jerusalem because of the house of the
[1093.7s] Lord, not because of anything else. You
[1095.8s] know, cities are famous, Paris is famous
[1097.9s] because of the Eiffel Tower. There are
[1099.5s] many things uh for which uh cities are
[1102.4s] known for. But for David, when he thinks
[1105.2s] about Jerusalem, he's thinking about
[1107.9s] going before the presence of God. Amen.
[1110.2s] And so, uh, to for David, Jerusalem was
[1114.6s] where the tribes go up. It was where
[1116.8s] they go to pay homage to God, where they
[1119.4s] go to be in the presence of God, where
[1121.8s] they go to be blessed, where they go to
[1124.1s] find peace and prosperity. He knows that
[1127.7s] Jerusalem as a capital city isn't the
[1130.0s] city of power, but rather it is where
[1132.3s] the house of God, who is the almighty,
[1135.7s] was founded. Amen. Amen. Amen. You know
[1138.1s] he says peace and prosperity. You know I
[1141.9s] don't know what you find when you go to
[1144.3s] church today. Is your church a place of
[1147.2s] peace? Is your church a place where you
[1149.6s] go and you feel oo I'm in the house of
[1152.6s] my father? I want to tell you today that
[1155.0s] even if your 7th day Adventist church
[1158.1s] does not represent this. The sanctuary
[1160.9s] here on earth was not made after the
[1163.0s] patterns in our churches. It was made
[1165.4s] after the pattern of the heavenly
[1168.2s] sanctuary. That means we are looking
[1170.5s] forward to the true house of the Lord. A
[1173.3s] place of peace, a place of prosperity
[1176.2s] indeed is coming. True Jerusalem, the
[1179.4s] new Jerusalem will be your place of
[1182.7s] safety. and and for David he must have
[1187.0s] have looked upon this and wondered asked
[1190.0s] himself this place for me he's for him
[1193.3s] to say I would rather be a gatekeeper
[1195.8s] how did he perceive the house of God
[1198.3s] even as we move on to to the Monday part
[1201.0s] even as we move on to the m how did he
[1202.8s] perceive the the house of God indeed for
[1206.5s] David uh the house of God was a place of
[1210.0s] refuge indeed even in his story there's
[1211.9s] a time when he was fleeing from Saul and
[1214.4s] he went into the temple and in the
[1216.6s] temple the priests fed a hungry David
[1219.3s] and his men with the shoebreak. You
[1221.6s] know, for David, God when David is
[1224.2s] speaking about God being a refuge, he he
[1226.8s] has experienced it literally. He has sat
[1229.3s] under the shadow of the most high. When
[1232.2s] he he he's speaking about he's speaking
[1233.9s] from experience, he's speaking as as as
[1236.9s] a fugitive running away from the
[1239.0s] government of the day, persecuted by the
[1241.0s] Philistines and persecuted also at home,
[1243.4s] at home and away. And in the midst of
[1245.4s] all these, David says, I lift up my eyes
[1248.0s] to the hills from cometh my help. And
[1250.7s] then he says, "My help cometh from the
[1252.8s] Lord." And where is the Lord? The Lord
[1254.8s] is in his sanctuary. The Lord is in his
[1257.0s] tabernacle. And so for David, he he's he
[1260.3s] when he he takes pleasure in being in
[1263.0s] the presence of God. He takes pleasure
[1265.4s] in in in in in where the ark of the of
[1268.1s] God's presence is. And and and and and
[1271.7s] for for because of his experience, David
[1274.2s] speaks greatly. But I also I would also
[1277.0s] like to believe that David is also a bit
[1279.4s] prophetic in part of his psalms. For
[1281.8s] example, in Psalms 15 now as we
[1283.8s] transition into Monday, he speaks and
[1286.1s] says, Lord, who shall abide in thy
[1289.1s] tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy
[1292.2s] hill? Then he answers the question and
[1294.9s] says, he that walks what? I proudly and
[1298.0s] walketh righteousness and speaketh the
[1300.6s] truth in his heart. He that backbiteth
[1302.7s] not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to
[1305.1s] his neighbor, nor taketh up reproach
[1307.6s] against his neighbor, in whose eyes a
[1309.8s] vile person is condemned, condemned, and
[1313.2s] but he honest honestth them that fear
[1315.8s] the Lord. He that swearth to his own
[1318.2s] heart and changeeth not. He that putteth
[1320.8s] not out his money to usury, nor taketh
[1324.1s] reward against the innocent. For he that
[1326.9s] doeth these things shall never be moved.
[1330.9s] He's asking the question ultimately, who
[1334.4s] shall abide in the tabernacle? Who shall
[1337.6s] dwell in his holy hill? And then he
[1339.6s] comes again in Psalms 24, if we uh if
[1343.0s] you may permit us to read it very
[1344.7s] quickly, he says, "The earth is the
[1347.7s] Lord's and the fullness thereof, the
[1349.9s] world and they that dwell therein. For
[1352.0s] he had founded it upon the seas and
[1353.6s] established it upon the floods." Then he
[1355.5s] asked the question in verse three again,
[1357.4s] who shall ascend into the hill of the
[1360.4s] Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place?
[1363.5s] Cont says, he that has what? Clean
[1365.8s] hands, a pure heart, who has not lifted
[1368.3s] up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn
[1370.6s] deceitfully, he shall receive the
[1372.5s] blessing from the Lord and righteousness
[1374.2s] from the God of his salvation. He says,
[1376.2s] "This is generation of them that seek
[1378.0s] after him, that seek thy face, oh Jacob.
[1381.0s] Lift up your heads, oh ye gates, and be
[1382.7s] ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors." and
[1384.7s] the king of glory shall come in. Then
[1386.7s] the question is asked, who is this king
[1388.2s] of glory? You realize all these are
[1390.1s] prophetic passages almost it's almost as
[1393.0s] if David got a glimpse of of things. I
[1396.0s] wonder whether he understood them
[1397.2s] himself, you know, and and as we shall
[1399.5s] see as as we as we as we go on, we
[1401.9s] realize indeed Mount Zion or the
[1405.2s] presence of the Lord is for those who
[1407.3s] have the character that is like the
[1409.3s] character of God. So this holy hill he's
[1412.3s] speaking of it's as though God gave him
[1414.7s] a glimpse of those who will stand at the
[1417.1s] end. You know, I read in the book of
[1419.3s] Obadiah verse 17 and the Bible says,
[1422.5s] "But upon Mount Zion shall be the shall
[1425.9s] be deliverance." The deliverance of
[1427.8s] God's people will be at Mount Zion and
[1430.6s] there shall be holiness and the house of
[1434.3s] Jo Jacob shall possess their possessions
[1437.1s] that on Mount Zion stands holiness. Let
[1440.3s] me ask you who are these people that
[1443.1s] David describes and say they st who will
[1445.8s] stand on the holy hill? Who what is the
[1449.3s] character of these people? Who are these
[1451.1s] people who eventually stand on the holy
[1453.9s] hill? Obadiah says that place on Mount
[1456.9s] Zion will be a place of holiness. Amen.
[1459.6s] In the book of Revelation chapter 14
[1461.9s] because and again this is it just tells
[1463.7s] me just how connected the scripture is.
[1466.4s] Revelation 14:1 we are told I looked and
[1469.7s] lo a lamb stood on which mountain? Mount
[1473.0s] Zion and with him 144,000 having his
[1476.6s] father's name written in their
[1478.5s] foreheads. And again we are told in
[1480.9s] verse four the character of these
[1482.4s] individuals that they have they had not
[1484.6s] defiled themselves with women. In this
[1486.2s] case it is not literal. It is that there
[1488.6s] is a particular woman here who's called
[1491.1s] uh Babylon in Revelation 17 and her
[1493.7s] daughters uh who would corrupt and and
[1496.5s] these people do not defile themselves
[1498.2s] with Babylon or the systems of Babylon
[1501.0s] for they are virgins and and h these are
[1503.8s] they which go follow the lamb
[1505.5s] whethersoever he goeth. They were
[1507.1s] redeemed from among men being the first
[1509.4s] fruits unto God and to the lamb. And in
[1512.1s] their mouth was found no guil. Again,
[1514.9s] not that they had never sinned. It's
[1517.8s] that having received the forgiveness of
[1520.2s] Jesus Christ and having put on the
[1522.1s] righteousness of Christ, number one,
[1524.2s] they are justified fully. And number
[1526.5s] two, they have walked with Jesus and
[1528.6s] have been sanctified day by day up until
[1531.3s] now. This verse five is not a lie. It's
[1533.6s] not a lie. It's not it's it's not that
[1535.6s] it's like a legal, you know, like a
[1537.5s] legal. It's actually 100% as a fact that
[1541.4s] their sins in the past are forgiven and
[1543.4s] truly they have been transformed such
[1545.0s] that they are found with no guile and
[1547.7s] they without fault before the throne of
[1549.6s] God. Amen. How beautiful. You know it's
[1552.1s] as if David will ask is there anyone who
[1555.7s] would be found worthy to stand on this
[1559.0s] heel of holiness? Is there anyone?
[1562.0s] Revelation 14 answers and gives us an
[1564.8s] answer to that question that indeed in
[1567.8s] the last days there will rise up a
[1570.8s] generation in whose mouth there will be
[1573.8s] no g. Why? David said in the book of
[1576.6s] Psalm 15 that the people who will stand
[1579.6s] on this hill they walk uprightly they
[1582.8s] work righteousness and they speak truth.
[1586.3s] There is no guide in their mouth. There
[1588.9s] is going to be a generation on this
[1591.2s] earth who indeed the devil will come and
[1594.4s] he will find
[1596.4s] nothing in them. They have no G. They
[1599.4s] are righteous. They have not defiled
[1601.2s] themselves with the wine of Babylon.
[1603.9s] There will be a generation. David would
[1605.9s] ask, "Who is this?" Oh, they're going to
[1608.2s] be there. They are
[1610.6s] their
[1612.5s] 144,000. And something um um very
[1615.8s] interesting. Let's just look at um when
[1619.0s] we look at um Revelation 14, let us just
[1622.5s] think of the character of these people
[1624.9s] and what God is promising his people. He
[1627.4s] says there there are there is going to
[1629.3s] be such a generation of people. How do
[1631.8s] these people get to a point where we can
[1634.6s] say indeed there is no G in their
[1637.1s] mouths? How do they obtain this victory?
[1640.4s] Indeed. Um in essence
[1643.8s] um in in
[1646.9s] in in all
[1649.1s] practicality, all have sinned and fallen
[1651.4s] short of the glory of God. Amen. And
[1653.9s] these 144,000 are not standing in any
[1657.4s] merits in and of themselves, but they
[1659.7s] are standing on the merits of the faith
[1662.1s] that they have exercised in the lamb of
[1664.2s] God who was slain from the foundation of
[1666.4s] the world. And so it is there is no
[1669.5s] other there's no other power that can
[1673.2s] enable us to stand as the 144,000 or
[1677.4s] with the 144,000 except as we exercise
[1681.6s] faith in Christ the lamb of God. Indeed
[1686.2s] um we can we are told that uh this
[1690.9s] 144,000 have an experience. They have a
[1693.9s] song you know which they sing and songs
[1696.5s] usually are attached to experiences the
[1699.8s] things that they have passed through.
[1701.2s] They have passed through tribulation.
[1703.0s] They have passed through trials but
[1705.6s] their faith was the victory. Their faith
[1707.6s] was the victory. Their dependence on God
[1710.4s] and on Christ and on the merits of his
[1712.9s] blood. And it is it is on this uh on on
[1717.0s] on this um certification. It is only o
[1721.8s] on these grounds that they are they have
[1723.9s] gotten to where they are. They have
[1725.4s] exercised perfect faith in the perfect
[1727.7s] lamb of God. Amen. Amen. I pray that you
[1732.0s] can see this that we can all stand on
[1736.1s] that holy heel. Not because we have done
[1738.6s] anything special, but because we have
[1741.4s] received the merits of our Lord Jesus
[1744.0s] Christ, who died for us, gave himself
[1746.6s] for us, shed his blood, that his that
[1749.6s] blood may cleanse us to indeed ensure
[1752.9s] that on that holy hill, Jesus our the
[1757.2s] that lamp we can stand next to him. And
[1760.8s] you know the Bible says um as we move on
[1763.1s] to this Tuesday part that these people
[1765.8s] who stand on that holy hill they have
[1769.4s] the name of the father and the lamb
[1772.8s] written on their hearts. There's a very
[1775.4s] famous quotation by um Shakespeare he
[1779.2s] writes and ask you know what is in a
[1781.1s] name you know a rose called by any other
[1783.6s] name it will still be it still smells as
[1786.6s] sweet. But does the Bible teach us that
[1788.9s] what is in a name? So what's in a name?
[1792.6s] Um there are several times over that
[1794.9s] names are extremely important. Uh there
[1797.4s] was Abraham and e almost in answer to in
[1801.8s] in in confirmation of a promise. He he
[1804.7s] he changed the name of Abraham to what?
[1807.3s] Abraham. Abraham and Sarai to Sarah.
[1810.6s] Sara indicating almost like God has
[1813.2s] breathed into them um uh uh uh in in in
[1817.4s] connection with the promise that he has
[1818.8s] given them. Again we have another
[1820.7s] persons whose name is Yakob Jacob which
[1823.8s] means what supplerant deceiver and his
[1827.2s] name is changed to what? Israel Israel
[1829.7s] which is a prince with God victory
[1831.8s] something like that victory with God
[1833.1s] prince with God with God and prevails
[1835.4s] and prevails. Yes. So again you see like
[1837.8s] the names are very important in the in
[1840.0s] the New Testament someone's name is is
[1842.8s] uh Emmanuel which means what? God with
[1845.0s] us. God with us. Um in the book of
[1848.1s] Isaiah we know that Isaiah's sons are
[1850.6s] given special names. A very long name.
[1852.3s] There's another I think it's Mahal
[1854.1s] Shazbas. It's like the Lord will have
[1856.5s] victory. I'm paraphrasing and I think it
[1858.5s] mean the Lord will have victory and will
[1860.2s] give total victory. In the book of um I
[1863.2s] don't know where it's there's lo am army
[1865.3s] and l roama there are two sons and then
[1868.6s] their names will be changed to what ami
[1871.0s] and ruama from the lord will not have
[1873.8s] mercy and these are not my people to the
[1876.4s] lord will have mercy and these are my
[1878.6s] people so names are are so important in
[1881.5s] the bible consistently and um and and so
[1885.2s] when it says that they have the father's
[1886.9s] name in their forehead the 144,000 it
[1889.8s] has a special significance of of having
[1892.5s] the father's character within the
[1894.4s] foreheads of those individuals. What we
[1896.2s] just read in re in the book of
[1897.5s] revelation, a father the the the a name
[1901.4s] represents the character. The name
[1903.8s] represents the character and you know in
[1906.1s] the book of Exodus we will see in the
[1908.9s] book of Exodus um chapter 33. First of
[1911.8s] all um Moses pleads with God and says
[1914.7s] God I have been walking with you time
[1918.2s] and time again. it is just about time
[1921.0s] that I saw you. And he pleads with God
[1923.5s] that he may have an experience to see
[1925.9s] this person that he has been um talking
[1928.7s] to, conversing with constantly. And God
[1931.7s] gives gives him a promise and tells him,
[1934.2s] I will make my glory pass by you. I will
[1937.9s] make my glory pass by you. And
[1940.2s] eventually in Exodus chapter 34, God
[1944.0s] fulfills his promise. What does he do?
[1946.9s] He passes by Moses but his eyes are
[1950.1s] covered. And as God is passing, he
[1954.0s] declares himself. He reveals his glory.
[1957.5s] But how does he reveal his glory? Is it
[1959.8s] in some is it in some shining light,
[1962.9s] some dazzling light or lightning or
[1965.4s] thunders? No, he gently comes and
[1968.7s] declares his name. The Bible tells us
[1971.8s] that God himself actually, it is very
[1975.0s] interesting that when he proclaims his
[1977.6s] name, he says things that relate to his
[1981.0s] very character. This is what the Bible
[1983.3s] says in Exodus 34:5. And the Lord
[1986.5s] descended in the cloud and stood with
[1989.0s] him there and proclaimed the name of the
[1993.4s] Lord. And this is the name he gave. And
[1995.8s] the Lord passed before him and
[1997.3s] proclaimed the Lord the Lord God,
[2000.8s] merciful and gracious, longsuffering and
[2005.3s] abundant in goodness and truth, keeping
[2009.0s] mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity
[2012.6s] and transgression and sin, and that will
[2016.2s] by no means clear the guilty, visiting
[2019.2s] the iniquity of the fathers upon the
[2021.4s] children, and upon the children's
[2023.4s] children, and to the third and to the
[2025.5s] fourth generation. For me, I find this
[2027.8s] to be very comforting. You know, God
[2029.5s] could have presented himself in several
[2031.6s] ways. God has many attributes including
[2034.9s] God is holy, including God is all
[2038.6s] powerful, including God is omnisient. He
[2041.9s] would have come and said, "This is the
[2043.9s] Lord God, all knowing, possessing all
[2047.1s] power in the earth, full of holiness,
[2050.3s] and indeed I am of purer eyes that I
[2053.4s] cannot behold evil. He could have said
[2055.8s] that and those truly are his attributes.
[2059.5s] But God chooses to proclaim himself in
[2063.0s] the greatest attributes that shows us
[2065.3s] who he truly is that we can relate with
[2068.0s] him. Just tell talks of his mercy, talks
[2071.4s] of his forgiveness, talks of a God who
[2074.4s] is gracious, talks of a God who is
[2077.3s] longsuffering. He forgets and he veils
[2080.4s] all these other attributes and shows us
[2083.2s] the greatest attribute he wants to
[2085.5s] reveal his character through. Says my
[2088.2s] character is found in mercy. It is found
[2091.2s] in forgiveness. And guess what? There
[2093.7s] are 144,000 have this name written on
[2098.1s] their forehead that they serve a
[2100.2s] merciful God. It is not that they were
[2102.2s] not sinners. It is that their God is
[2104.9s] merciful. They have this name written on
[2108.0s] their forehead that their God forgives
[2110.9s] iniquity. They have this name written on
[2114.2s] their forehead that God forgives
[2116.9s] transgression and takes away sin. And
[2119.7s] they have this name written on their
[2121.4s] forehead that he will not clear the
[2123.4s] guilty. Why? Because he has extended
[2125.4s] mercy. They have refused to accept his
[2128.7s] mercy. This is the name written on the
[2130.9s] forehead of the
[2133.3s] 144,000. the men who stand on that holy
[2137.2s] hill. What is God's intention in
[2139.7s] replicating this in the children in the
[2142.1s] in the hearts of men? Tell us what God
[2144.5s] wants to do in our hearts. Not just the
[2147.7s] 144,000 we speak of, but what does God
[2150.3s] want to do in our hearts? Brother Rafa,
[2152.6s] I think um sometimes we argue about uh
[2156.2s] we can pontificate about the 144,000 and
[2158.8s] the great multitude, but the P of
[2160.4s] inspiration tells us as as much as we
[2162.6s] read about this, let this one thing be
[2164.9s] clear that the
[2167.8s] 144,000 are special in terms in that the
[2170.3s] only thing that makes them special is
[2171.6s] their experience. But in terms of
[2174.1s] character, all who enter into heaven
[2177.3s] must have the same character. And what
[2179.7s] is that character? the character of God.
[2182.3s] And therefore, we should strive to be
[2184.2s] like the 144,000. Not necessarily to be
[2187.2s] among them. If it is if it is within you
[2189.2s] a lot by the mercies of God and by his
[2191.1s] grace to be among them, well and good.
[2193.2s] But this one thing, the 144,000 will
[2196.6s] only be different in their experience.
[2199.1s] But in terms of character, all who will
[2201.2s] enter heaven from Adam to the very last
[2203.7s] person to be saved will have this one
[2206.5s] thing, the law of God in their hearts,
[2208.8s] which is the character of God. It
[2211.1s] reminds me of that song that says, "Some
[2213.6s] through the water, some through the
[2216.0s] fire, but all through the blood." Amen.
[2218.5s] All through the lamb. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[2220.9s] And I think this is a very good segue
[2223.0s] now to just go into the contract. We've
[2225.9s] seen what happens to the 144,000. But I
[2228.9s] want us to contrast between the the holy
[2232.0s] children of God. What happens to them
[2234.7s] versus what happens to the wicked.
[2238.0s] Thank you. Um in this is uh Psalm chaps
[2240.7s] Psalm 5, the Wednesday part. Yes. So um
[2243.3s] when we are studying Psalm 5, um we uh
[2246.9s] we actually end up finding something
[2248.9s] that that we can see pictured in
[2251.3s] Revelation chapter 14. We saw the
[2253.4s] 144,000. They have no guile in their
[2255.6s] mouths. We saw that they are guiltless
[2258.3s] and and we saw how they are guiltless.
[2260.1s] We saw it's not that they just suddenly,
[2261.8s] you know, they were always that way.
[2263.2s] They were just like all of us. Um 1
[2265.4s] Corinthians chapter 6, I think verse 9
[2267.8s] to 111, uh Paul lists a bunch of sins.
[2270.4s] He says fornication,
[2272.3s] um all manner of sexual vice, um um even
[2275.5s] evil, murder and all the rest. But then
[2277.2s] in verse 11, he says what? But such were
[2280.1s] some of you, but you are washed. So
[2282.8s] you're made clean. And you are made
[2284.1s] clean. So um friend, I really hope you
[2287.0s] do not um see these people as some other
[2289.6s] group. They're just like the rest of us.
[2292.3s] It's just that um h being serious with
[2296.6s] the offer that Christ gives of
[2298.0s] cleansing. They have overcome with the
[2299.7s] blood of the lamb. Amen. But now of the
[2301.9s] other side. And I think also uh just to
[2304.4s] encourage uh the the the the uh our
[2308.4s] brothers and our sisters and encouraging
[2309.9s] ourselves even self uh it says it is God
[2313.2s] who wills it who puts it in you both to
[2315.6s] will and to do of his own good pleasure
[2318.2s] that once we have submitted to God he
[2320.6s] even gives us the power. You know grace
[2323.0s] not only covers for our past but it also
[2326.3s] fuels our future and our present. And so
[2329.3s] it they they simply collaborate with
[2331.8s] God. We say all saints were once
[2334.1s] sinners. Amen. Yeah. Psalm 50:5, "Gather
[2338.2s] my saints together. They that have made
[2340.6s] a covenant with me by sacrif." That's
[2342.3s] the only biblical definition of saint.
[2344.6s] They that have made a covenant with me
[2346.5s] by sacrifice. Sometimes we have an idea
[2348.6s] of saint is this holy person who just
[2350.5s] sits somewhere and prays all the time.
[2351.7s] Who can pray for you? Who who is
[2353.6s] sinless? Who who who performs miracles?
[2356.6s] No. In fact, Paul himself as an apostle
[2359.2s] is a wonderful example. Paul killed
[2361.5s] Christians. Yes. Until he met Christ and
[2363.8s] he had a Damascus experience. And this
[2365.9s] same Paul dies for this gospel for which
[2368.8s] he was killing others. Amen. Amen.
[2370.9s] Anyway, now let's focus on Psalm five. I
[2372.6s] know we have been taken but it's a very
[2374.1s] important point of full salvation from
[2377.0s] the uttermost like know from the
[2378.9s] guttermost to the uttermost from the
[2380.6s] lowest point to the highest point. But
[2382.4s] Psalm 5 uh is a symbol of of of what God
[2386.7s] does unfortunately to the wicked. We are
[2389.2s] told in verse four, um, thou art not a
[2392.0s] God that hath pleasure in wickedness,
[2394.2s] neither shall evil dwell with thee. We
[2396.9s] have sometimes a false view of God, um,
[2399.8s] on the one hand, thinking that he is too
[2402.2s] um, like he's just so he's too severe.
[2404.7s] But then on the other hand, we may think
[2406.9s] that he is so soft that he can't even
[2409.4s] hurt. No, God is a God of justice. And
[2411.8s] there are times that once mercy has
[2414.4s] lingered and then a line has been
[2416.1s] crossed, the judgment shall be sent. Uh
[2418.7s] verse four, we are told, "Thou art not a
[2420.3s] God that hath pleasure in wickedness,
[2422.1s] neither shall evil dwell with thee." On
[2424.4s] the other hand, remember we saw that the
[2425.8s] righteous dwell freely in the presence
[2427.8s] of the lamb without any fear. They're
[2430.6s] walking freely, knowing that um uh
[2433.1s] Christ has received and has redeemed
[2434.9s] them. Again we are told in verse 7, but
[2437.3s] as for me I will come into thy house in
[2439.4s] the multitude of thy mercy and in thy
[2441.4s] fear I will worship towards thy holy
[2443.7s] temple. But what of the wicked? There is
[2446.3s] no faithfulness in their mouth. Speaking
[2448.2s] of the wicked uh h their inward part is
[2451.2s] very wickedness. Their throat is an open
[2453.6s] separ. They flatter with their tongues.
[2456.4s] Remember the other tongues had no g. But
[2459.0s] these tongues they flatter with their
[2461.0s] tongues. Their mouth is an open sea.
[2463.8s] What is that? It's like your mouth is an
[2465.7s] open grave. What is an open grave? An
[2468.1s] open grave is like is is is is it the an
[2472.4s] emanation of the most vile and
[2474.8s] contemptable thing death. It's the smell
[2476.6s] of death. Basically on the tongue is
[2478.1s] life and death. Yes. And in this case,
[2480.1s] it is death that is coming out of some
[2482.2s] people's mouths. My friend, I really
[2483.8s] hope that this is not your case. A s of
[2486.2s] death unto death. Yes. But if that is
[2488.5s] the case, choose life and choose Jesus
[2490.6s] Christ. Otherwise, you shall be classed
[2492.2s] among this group. And then in verse
[2494.1s] verse 10 we are told eh from David to
[2497.8s] God destroy thou them oh God let them
[2500.2s] fall by their own counselss. This is not
[2503.1s] an unfair and unjust punishment. This is
[2505.4s] from it's almost like it's something
[2507.2s] they deserve unfortunately having
[2509.5s] rejected the mercy that comes from
[2511.1s] heaven. Cast them out in the multitude
[2514.1s] of their transgressions for they have
[2516.6s] rebelled against thee. And I always like
[2519.8s] stressing that God's actions are actions
[2522.2s] of justice. In the book of John chapter
[2524.5s] 3 19, you know, we love chapter vers 16.
[2527.1s] Very wonderful. But in verse 18, 19, we
[2529.7s] are told that those who are condemned,
[2532.7s] this is the condemnation that is come
[2534.6s] into the world that men what? Light came
[2537.4s] into the world, but men loved darkness
[2539.8s] rather than light. Amen. The
[2541.8s] condemnation is that dark that that when
[2544.6s] light came, people rejected that light.
[2547.1s] So here people are rebelling against
[2549.4s] that that a against the God that would
[2552.1s] have saved them. But let all those that
[2554.7s] put their trust in thee rejoice. Let
[2556.8s] them shout for joy because thou
[2558.5s] defendest them. Let them also that love
[2560.7s] thy name be joyful in thee. So this is
[2563.4s] is is is a very interesting contrast to
[2566.3s] what we find in Revelation chapter 14.
[2568.7s] Revelation 14, God's people who had been
[2571.2s] going through troub times. Maybe they
[2573.5s] were the ones who are who who who
[2575.0s] received um the the afflictions of those
[2577.8s] tongues, those mouths that were open
[2579.4s] sepas. They themselves are now standing
[2582.0s] in joy and in bliss um beside the lamp.
[2585.6s] On the other hand, these ones
[2587.0s] unfortunately are are are it there's
[2590.4s] it's a phrase that I don't like, but it
[2592.2s] is a fact almost like bundles that are
[2595.0s] being prepared to be burnt. Very
[2597.0s] unfortunate. If you reject the mercy
[2599.4s] that God offers, then unfortunately
[2601.7s] there is a judgment that is coming. We
[2603.9s] know that hell was prepared for the
[2605.8s] devil and his angels. But if we ally
[2608.2s] with Satan in perpetuating his spirit
[2610.4s] and his character, then unfortunately
[2612.2s] the judgment that would justly come to
[2614.3s] the devil and his angels, we will
[2616.2s] receive except we repent.
[2619.5s] You know the Bible, it's very
[2621.3s] interesting that it says that even their
[2623.2s] inward part is wickedness. It is
[2625.8s] wickedness. You know, no sinner will be
[2629.4s] lost because mercy was not provided.
[2633.3s] These people are lost because they
[2635.6s] choose to reject the mercies of God. My
[2638.8s] brother, my sister, I hope you're not
[2640.9s] rejecting the mercies of God. Every
[2643.8s] single time he is calling out to you. He
[2646.8s] is telling you, come back. Come back, my
[2649.4s] people. I plead with you that you may
[2651.8s] accept his mercies. That indeed you will
[2654.3s] not be those ones who are wicked within.
[2657.2s] Those who have vile mouths, vile lips,
[2660.1s] tongues that are very harsh, you know,
[2662.2s] those people who taught back to their
[2664.2s] husbands or their fathers or their
[2666.2s] mothers, the the lips you need that
[2668.6s] mouth that is an open sppla versus those
[2671.6s] we saw in the book of Psalms 15 and
[2673.7s] Psalms 24 that they speak truth in their
[2676.6s] hearts. They have no gu. their hands are
[2679.7s] clean. It's interesting that the
[2681.8s] description of of of of a height of sin
[2684.3s] is not even murder or whatever. It is
[2686.2s] killing with the tongue. That's like and
[2688.1s] and sometimes we don't appreciate just
[2690.2s] how awful that is. Um how how how
[2693.3s] terrible it is. Uh there's a description
[2695.4s] that um that is given by Ellen White um
[2699.0s] that it's almost like somebody is served
[2701.5s] on the plate. You know it's somebody is
[2703.4s] served on the plate on the dining like
[2705.5s] on the table like their servings of a
[2707.7s] person. You know a person is described
[2709.6s] when a pastor comes and a pastor has
[2711.8s] some controversy surrounding them. The
[2713.7s] person is cut up into pieces. The family
[2715.5s] goes home and what they having for
[2717.4s] dinner is not food. It is a plate with a
[2721.0s] with a breast and you're just discussing
[2723.7s] a pastor. the gizad like somebody has
[2725.9s] cut the part of the pastor or the part
[2727.6s] of the elder or the part of this other
[2729.1s] person that they wish to discuss and and
[2731.8s] just chew on you know it is
[2733.0s] unfortunately it's called tea you know
[2734.6s] and they say pass me the plate I would
[2736.2s] also like to have some some some bits of
[2738.7s] that person let me discuss further the
[2741.8s] tongue the tongue that Christ is
[2744.1s] speaking of he says this tongue these
[2746.3s] are the wicked people that will be
[2748.3s] destroyed but what is the natural
[2751.0s] response of those who have been saved
[2753.4s] and redeemed D by Christ. What is the
[2755.4s] natural response? Indeed, I would like
[2757.7s] to echo uh the last verse of Psalms
[2760.4s] 5:12. It says, "For thou, Lord wilt
[2763.4s] bless the righteous. With favor wil thou
[2765.5s] compass him as with a shield." I think
[2770.0s] indeed the Lord has done wonderful
[2773.2s] things and he continues to do wondrous
[2775.1s] things for his children. And one of the
[2778.2s] greatest
[2779.2s] decisions a man or a woman can ever
[2781.8s] make, one of the most critical decisions
[2784.2s] a one can ever make is to align their
[2787.1s] lives with God to align them themselves
[2791.5s] with the blood stained banner of Prince
[2793.5s] Emmanuel. And we're told that um in
[2796.5s] Isaiah uh as we had read from verse one
[2799.5s] to around 7 and and uh the Bible
[2803.0s] continues and tells us that once Isaiah
[2805.4s] answered the call of who shall go for
[2808.1s] us, the next thing that Isaiah hears is
[2812.3s] the commands of God. And what is the
[2814.6s] command of God? The Bible says in verse
[2818.1s] 9, God sends Isaiah and says, "Go and
[2821.5s] tell these people, hear ye indeed. Hear
[2824.9s] ye indeed, but understand ye not, and ye
[2827.3s] see indeed, but ye perceive not." Once
[2831.0s] we have been um been um been converted,
[2836.6s] once we have been introduced to this
[2839.8s] Jesus, to this savior. In fact, in the
[2841.8s] book Great Controversy, I believe is
[2843.2s] page 57, it says the very first instinct
[2845.8s] in instinct of a converted heart is to
[2848.6s] bring others also to the savior. To tell
[2851.5s] others also to the savior like the
[2853.8s] disciple when he once they had seen John
[2857.2s] the Baptist speak of behold the lamb of
[2859.8s] God who takes away the sin of the world.
[2861.7s] He goes to others and says come and see
[2864.5s] somebody whom I have heard. Come and and
[2866.7s] and and the disciples lead one another
[2869.5s] to Christ.
[2870.8s] Eventually they come to to Nathaniel and
[2873.7s] they tell him that indeed they have seen
[2876.1s] the messiah we have seen the Messiah and
[2877.8s] and Nathaniel says can anything good
[2879.7s] come out of Nazareth? It is because
[2881.8s] those who had met with Christ had that
[2885.3s] power had that energy had that drive in
[2888.6s] fact uh Paul says that um that the the
[2892.6s] love of Christ constrains us. There's
[2895.4s] the it is almost natural. It's like an a
[2898.4s] volcanic eruption of or once salvation
[2901.8s] is in your heart, you want to go out and
[2904.1s] shout it. And uh in fact, they say, "Go
[2906.4s] tell it on the mountains, over the
[2908.0s] hills, and everywhere." And so David uh
[2912.2s] as he's mourning in that psalm of his
[2915.6s] repentance, which is Psalms 51, uh uh
[2919.8s] David is is is is contemplating his his
[2923.2s] his situation. Um and uh this is after
[2927.8s] the prophet Nathan has come to him and
[2929.9s] told him you had that man. You've taken
[2932.2s] another man's wife. You've killed that
[2934.2s] man. Whatever what you have done is
[2936.3s] wrong. You've abused power. You've
[2938.3s] abused privilege and you have sinned
[2940.8s] before God. And now David comes to a
[2943.6s] point of mourning and we pick up the sto
[2945.8s] the psalm in Psalm 7 and he says he's
[2948.2s] repenting. He says purge me with high
[2949.9s] soap and I shall be clean. Wash me and I
[2953.0s] shall be whiter than snow. Make me to
[2955.9s] hear joy and gladness that the bones
[2957.8s] which thou hast broken may rejoice.
[2960.6s] Conan says, "Hide thy face from my sins
[2963.2s] and blot out all my iniquities." He
[2966.0s] says, "Create in me a clean heart, oh
[2968.9s] God, and renew a right spirit within
[2971.6s] me." He pleads with God, "Cast me not
[2974.2s] away from thy presence and take not thy
[2978.2s] holy spirit from me." Amen. Amen. He's
[2980.7s] not saying
[2982.7s] Lord don't take the king kingship away
[2985.4s] from me. Don't take my wealth away from
[2987.8s] me. David says if there's one thing that
[2990.8s] he has desired is to be in the presence
[2993.2s] of the Lord. He says cast me not away
[2995.9s] from thy presence and do not take away
[2999.0s] from me your holy spirit. He says in
[3001.8s] verse 12, restore unto me the joy of
[3005.5s] your salvation. You know, there's a joy
[3007.8s] that we have when we are in relationship
[3010.1s] and in right standing with God. There's
[3012.2s] a peace that surpasses understanding.
[3013.8s] Though the storms around us may be
[3015.4s] raging, though the thunder may roll and
[3018.0s] lightning may flash, if Jesus is within
[3021.0s] our hearts, there's that peace. There's
[3023.1s] that joy of when we are in communion
[3026.0s] with God, when we we have the assurance
[3028.1s] of salvation. He continues and says,
[3030.0s] "Uphold me with thy free spirit." Then
[3034.4s] he says in verse 13, "After I have been
[3037.7s] saved, after I have repented, after I
[3040.6s] have been forgiven, then I will teach
[3043.6s] transgressors thy ways." Amen. "And
[3046.2s] sinners will be converted unto thee."
[3050.4s] Amen. It speaks to us of the attitude of
[3054.5s] the redeemed, the attitude of the saved,
[3057.5s] that they go out and minister. And it's
[3061.6s] like if you've discovered something
[3062.8s] nice, something pure, something sweet,
[3065.5s] you don't hide it, but you go out and
[3068.6s] share it with others. Amen. Amen. Um,
[3071.8s] Jaff in the book of Revelation, just
[3074.6s] coming back to the book of Revelation
[3076.2s] that we are studying this quarter. It's
[3078.6s] interesting that these are the last days
[3080.8s] we are living in. But I don't see human
[3083.7s] beings preaching. I'm just seeing angels
[3086.6s] flying around and giving messages. If
[3090.2s] the natural response of the converted
[3092.8s] heart is to go out and preach, who are
[3095.4s] the people preaching in the book of
[3097.0s] Revelation? Exactly. In the Revelation
[3099.3s] 14:6, we find um uh a a great commission
[3104.2s] that is given to them. They are told, it
[3106.4s] says, "I saw another angel fly in the
[3108.2s] midst of heaven, having the everlasting
[3109.8s] gospel to preach to them that dwell on
[3111.6s] the earth and to every nation, kindred,
[3113.8s] tongue, and people, saying with a loud
[3115.7s] voice, fear God, and give glory, give
[3118.5s] glory to him, for the hour of his
[3119.8s] judgment is come." So who are these
[3121.9s] people who bear the the everlasting
[3123.9s] gospel. This angel is actually a symbol.
[3126.8s] It is the book of Revelation is a book
[3128.5s] of symbols. It is a symbol of the church
[3130.7s] itself. It is the church that is to go
[3132.9s] out to give this message to everyone
[3135.4s] everywhere. In fact, in the book of
[3137.1s] Revelation chapter 10, the very same uh
[3139.5s] message of uh having something to be
[3142.0s] given to nations, kindled tongue people,
[3144.2s] we are told it is John who is doing it.
[3146.9s] And John again is clearly a symbol of of
[3149.4s] God's people at a particular time.
[3151.4s] Revelation 10 11 it says, "Thou must
[3154.6s] prophesy again before nations, peoples,
[3157.9s] tongues, and kings." So clearly it is
[3160.6s] actually it is not angels. In fact it's
[3162.7s] something interesting that Rafael
[3163.9s] pointed out that in the book of Isaiah
[3166.4s] chapter 6 after the in the presence of
[3169.8s] all those angels the one who answered
[3171.7s] the question um who will go for us was a
[3174.9s] human being it was Isaiah who said
[3179.2s] um I will go basically I he here am I
[3183.0s] send me. So it is actually God's people
[3185.5s] today. We are to do that work of
[3187.5s] spreading the everlasting gospel
[3189.1s] everywhere. Amen. Amen. Clearly it is
[3191.9s] not angels flying around. Truly they are
[3195.4s] appear they are shown as though they are
[3197.7s] angels because they move swiftly. It's
[3200.2s] an urgent message. And my brother, my
[3202.6s] sister, this message is urgent that you
[3205.8s] go out the same way you have been
[3208.2s] redeemed. May you go out as well and do
[3211.8s] the work of redeeming others. Well, that
[3215.2s] is it. I would want us to conclude here
[3217.6s] with a key takeaway that God is
[3220.8s] finishing his work of perfecting his
[3223.9s] saints. He wants to stand on Mount Zion
[3226.9s] with a holy people, a people without
[3229.8s] ging their mouths. He wants to stand on
[3231.9s] Mount Zion with you and I. And before he
[3235.7s] does that, he wants you to rely on his
[3238.2s] blood. Rely on his merits to obtain
[3241.7s] victory over sin. And once you have
[3244.8s] obtained that victory over sin, he wants
[3246.9s] you to go out, bring others so that on
[3249.8s] Mount Zion, you do not stand alone with
[3252.4s] Jesus. You stand with your family. You
[3254.7s] stand with your friends. You stand with
[3257.0s] your church. May you not stand alone on
[3260.6s] Mount Zion. With that, I want us to
[3263.0s] close there with a word of prayer.
[3265.0s] Kindly pray with us as we close. Okay,
[3267.0s] let's pray. Everlasting father, we thank
[3269.8s] you so much that you have taken us
[3271.4s] through uh this uh study. We had prayed
[3274.2s] in the beginning for more of your spirit
[3276.0s] and each of us uh can sense that you
[3278.0s] have really worked through us to uh to
[3280.6s] help us uh uh guide and uh this uh
[3283.6s] discussion. We ask your holy spirit may
[3286.2s] uh uh be the ears of all the hearers of
[3288.5s] this message that they may receive and
[3290.4s] apply this message that they may take
[3292.2s] more time to study the book of psalms
[3293.9s] more deeply and appreciate the special
[3296.2s] messages that are found therein in Jesus
[3298.3s] name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank
[3300.9s] you.