Title: Lesson 10 || Upon Whom The Ends Have Come || Quater 2 2025
Video ID: AxEOdIG6w5I
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AxEOdIG6w5I
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you so much for joining us today as we study the Sabbath school lesson for this week. With me today, I am joined here at New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth Gong Avenue, by my brother and my husband who will be studying this lesson with us. I would like them to introduce themselves even before we begin. Um, we can start with you. Uh, my name is Enango Rafa. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for coming. Thank you. My name is Jafet Ron. It's a pleasure. Thank you. And my name is Jess Rono. I am glad to be here with you today. Before we begin this lesson, I would like to ask uh Jaffet kindly pray with us. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity you're giving us to study um uh this lesson and to whom the ends of the world are come. May your holy spirit be our guide and may Jesus Christ be glorified in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Today we are studying the lesson upon whom the ends have come. This quarter we have been dis discussing the images, symbols, figures and illusions that God uses in prophecy to prepare his children in these last days. Now in this particular lesson we are going to delve further and look at some some particular accounts given in the Old Testament especially and Christ references to teach us again to prefigure what will happen to the children of God in the last days. Our key text comes from the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 11 and 12. But brother Raphael, kindly read that for us. All right. Uh 1 Corinthians 10 11 and 12 reading from the New King James Version. The Bible records and says, "Now all these things happened to them as examples, and they were written for admonition upon whom the ends of the ages have come. Therefore, let him who thinks his stands take heed lest he fall. Amen. You know, Paul is writing and saying that these things and he was giving an account of what happened to the children of Israel and told us that us who are reading these things about what happened in ages past that they the records have been preserved for our sake so that we can learn from them and so that we can understand the way maybe some of them fell. We are also prone to falling and we can also learn how they overcame so that if we are to overcome we can follow the same path. But the Bible is very very beautiful. You know there are some churches and communities today that believe that the only way you can understand passages certain passages of scripture is by reading a single text. They remove either the context from scripture or they fail to go through other passages to help them explain. You know the Bible has not just taught us about the last days just through the books of Daniel and Revelation. We are told that even in other records in other stories we find in the Bible we can find lessons that will give us prophetic messages that are important for us today. The Bible says in the book of Isaiah chapter 28 um in I will read from verse 9. The Bible says, "Whom shall he teach knowledge? And who shall he make to understand doctrine? Them that are winded from the milk and drawn from the breast. For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little and there a little." that the understanding we have of some of the messages we have in the book of revelation and Daniel, we have not just found them there. We can go back to other passages of scripture, precept upon precept, and confirm that our understanding indeed is true. And that is what we will be going to do this week. We will see many of the messages in the book of Daniel and Revelation were already revealed to the children of God. Those messages were already recorded even in their own experiences all the way from Genesis. And as we go now into the Sunday part to discuss the wrath of the lamb. My brother, I just want you to take us through this and um tell us the condition and also the reaction of the people when Christ will be coming a second time. What will be their condition? What will be also their state of mind? Indeed. Uh, it's an interesting title if you if you if you if you let it linger in your mind and you think about it, the wrath of the lamb. A lamb is an animal that is known to be kind and generous and and and and very peaceful. Now, to think that a lamb can actually be to have wrath, that's that's that's something. But the Bible uh indeed tells us that there is in scripture and in prophecy recorded a day which is known as uh the day in which the wrath of the lamb is unleashed. And this is found in the book of revelation chapter 6 reading from verses 12-1 17. And if you would indulge me let us turn there together. And the bible records it is uh the period of the opening of the sixth seal. And the Bible records and says, "There was a great earthquake, and the sun became as black as sackloth of air, and the moon became as blood. The stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree cast her untimely figs, when she shaken over a mighty wind." 14 says, "And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together, and every mountain and island were moved out of their places." 15 says, "And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bond man, and every free man hid themselves in the dens, and in the rocks of the mountains." And verse 16 says, "And say to the mountains, and the rocks fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that siteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the lamb, for the day of his wrath is come." And the question that is being asked there is who shall be able to stand. I think in prior lessons we were able to answer those who will stand those who would have heeded to the warnings and the messages of the lamb. But it is significant in that this passage is telling us that the kings of the earth and great men, rich men, chief captains and mighty men and every bond man. We live in a world in which we know some great men in our world today. uh periodically there's usually like the Forbes list of the richest men you know um I don't think there's ever a list for the most spiritual or most prayerful but we have metrics by which we can measure the achievements of men and by and using them we able to say these are the top 40 under 40 etc etc but the Bible is saying there comes a time that even the captains of industry do not have answers to the questions that uh that were that are being asked and such a time as this is the Day of the great wrath of the lamb. And the question is who shall be able to stand? We see them running and hiding themselves asking the mountains and the rocks to fall on them and to hide them from their face. It is better they'd rather a mountain falls on them than they face. The lamp must truly be an an interesting and a frightening day. You know the way as a child when lightning strikes and then the thunder follows uh you you what what you you what you do as a child as a young child you'd run for shelter later on. Sometimes it can still happen to you as an adult depending on whether you've you've overcome your phobias but there there are things that can happen and and you sort of sometimes want to find shelter. I remember an example somebody gave that uh when they are on a plane and they're too turbulence and they feel like the plane is going to is going is going to is going to uh yeah to like to crash. Yeah. It's going to it's going down. Then they suddenly hold on to their seats like the seat is not part of the plane that is also going not that is also going down. You know sometimes we want to hide and we want to find a shelter but indeed it is a wonderful day a mighty day. Sometimes uh certain certain prophets have said a strange day, the day of God's wrath. And so it's speaking to us uh that indeed um the lost are crying out. They are wondering, they are wondering that um what exactly can they be able to do? Who shall be able to stand? And the Bible, let me just ask you a question. How do they know who the lamb is? I think the Bible tells us uh in Matthew 24:14 that prior to this great day of the wrath of the lamb that the gospel would have been preached to them. One of the prerequites uh for the gospel for this for the day of the of the great day of the wrath of the lamb to come is that the gospel shall have been preached to all the living creatures to every corner to every nation, kindred, tongue and people. And so uh that is part of the um the uh the Christian's duty to proclaim the gospel and there therein hasten the coming of our Lord and our savior Jesus Christ. Very very interesting. You know it reminds me of the story of Nebuchadnezzar and the three Hebrew boys. You know it it it it always everyone who will read that story would always ask themselves how did Nebuchadnezzar know who is the son of man? How did he know when he saw the fourth man and say, "Oh, I see not three men but four men and the fourth is like the son of man." How did he know how Jesus looks like? Indeed, it's the same thing I think Paul addresses later on in the gospels and it says, "How can they hear if there's no preacher? How can they know the gospel if if nobody goes and teaches them?" So, someone must have told somebody must have told Nebuchadnezzar. Somebody must have modeled for Nebuchadnezzar who exactly the son of man is. That was the work of Ananiah, Misha, and Daniel. And so it's the question is how if they're able to identify the lamb and they know him and they heard the gospel, why are they crying for the stones to fall on them? I think it is simply the outworking of the choices that they have made. These are men and women who are comfortable in the earth. Indeed, if you read in certain um in certain uh portions of the scripture when it when it is speaking about uh the woman of Babylon, it says that the merchants men of the world had uh had been had been made drunk and some had become um prosperous and rich by reason of their relationship uh with this woman with this false church. And sometimes men and women compromise truth. Sometimes men and women reject the call of Christ in their lives for earthly conveniences. You see the Bible says, it begins, it's interesting that it begins and it says the kings of the earth and great men, the rich men and chief captains. But then it doesn't end there. Eventually, it summarizes and captures everybody and it says every bond man and every free man. Indeed, it's telling us that the it's it it this this group not only entails the the creme de la creme of society back as we know it, but also uh those lesser men. So if if by the metrics of men um as the Bible um may may say and as we know in society there are those whom we we we we sort of um consider um um uh lesser in society because of social economic uh power and ability. But nonetheless all uh the great day of the wrath of the of of the lamb cuts across both the rich and the poor. The only difference is when the day of the great the wrath wrath of the lamb comes is whether like the story of Noah whether we'll be found having entered into the ark or we'll be found outside the ark where the rain is coming. And indeed the Bible uh the the the lesson writer continues and speaks to us in Matthew speaks to us for the story in Matthew 24. Matthew 24 uh from around uh verses 36 to 44. We're called to consider and this is a story in which Christ himself now is giving an example of how it shall be before the setting before this great day of the wrath of the lamb. He begins and says, "But of the day and hour knoweth, no man, not the angels of heaven, but my father only." But then he goes ahead and describes uh the the the prevailing circumstances and and the atmosphere before that day surrounding that day. And it says, "But as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the son of man be." For as in the days that were before the flood, what were they doing? Were they listening to the gospel? Were they appreciating uh Christ's uh sacrifice on their behalf? Were they uh humbly humbling themselves and and calling upon themselves the merits of the blood of Christ? No. The Bible says what were they doing instead? They were eating and drinking, marrying and giving into marriage until the day that Noah entered into the ark, the antitypical day um the typical day of the wrath of the lamb. The Bible continues and says, "And they knew not until the flood came and took them all away. So also shall the coming of the son of man be." It is interesting also that there are parallels between these two stories that even when when that day came in which it started it it started raining for the first time in earth's history rain coming from the clouds that the great men and women looked for great animals and they looked for great heights. the pen of inspiration for the wonderful book Patrick's and prophets. It says that they tied their children and they tied themselves to these great beasts that were seeking shelter to the tall animals. The tall animals and and it's interesting that once again when all things fail, man turns to nature for help. Similarly, in the this great day of the wrath of the lamb of man, men and women are turning to the mountains and the hills and they're saying fall on us and cover us. They're looking for shelter. But lo and behold, he who is uh the maker, even nature itself bows down to its creator. And there can be no hiding from the great day of the wrath of the lamb and from the face of uh of of the of the lamb. But the question still remains, who shall be able to stand? Who shall be able to stand? Indeed. I just coming in from the story of Noah. I I I I want you to go in and just explain what was what was the condition of the people during the time of Noah. What are some of the sins we are seeing during that time and how did Noah respond? Thank you. So in the book of second Peter chapter 3 verse uh 5 we find Peter speaking and saying something very interesting. He tells us that at that particular time, actually at the time of Peter, when Peter was living, uh this they are willingly ignorant of that by the word of the of God, the heavens were of old and the earth standing out of water and in water whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. So h Peter says what he says that the people are willingly ignorant of this fact. Why would Peter say this? Because Peter recognized what you and I can recognize if you do a very simple study of history that the story of the flood is fairly common. That almost across different cultures that could not possibly have communicated with each other have like sometimes strikingly similar elements of of that particular story. all the way from China to parts of central Africa to parts of Europe to parts even of um South America you find elements of this singular story not the story of I don't know maybe like the rocks falling or something or story of a great typh like great wind or whatever or a great uh um wildfire but of a flood that destroys the whole world because of the sin e of the people and a few people because of the the agency of the god gods as those different cultures would believe has preserved them. So it's interesting that that story was so common and so Peter was saying that people at that time were willingly ignorant of that fact and e of what fact in particular the fact that the whole world was destroyed with the flood. I think my brother Rafael has taken us through Matthew 24, but I just want to us to zero in on a few things that Jesus Christ points out as prevalent during that particular time just before the flood came. Matthew 24, reading from verse 37 to 39, we are told that as the days of Noah were, so shall also the coming of the son of man be. So as in the days of Noah, men were doing what? Number one, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered into the ark. And remember that Noah was a preacher of righteousness. He consistently preached that message for 120 years that the world is going to be destroyed with a flood. Get in to the ark. And as that message was being preached and the people knew that the message was being preached, they continued eating and drinking, marrying and giving a marriage. So that's point number one that the people were preoccupied with the daily aspects of life and and and willingly kept themselves from that knowledge that that there was a judgment coming upon the earth. But number two, in the book of Genesis, we are told something special about that preoccupation of the people. Genesis chapter 6, we are told um reading from verse one until verse 6, but I will zero in on verse 5. It says that God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth and that every imagination of the thought of his heart was only wicked continually that every imagination so and and in fact even later he says in verse 12 11 the earth was corrupt before God and the earth was filled with violence h and god looked upon the earth and behold it was corrupt for the flesh have corrupted his way upon the earth. So point number two, number one, the people were preoccupied with the daily aspects of life. But number two, those preoccupations were corrupted. So as they were eating and drinking, it was corrupt. As we're marrying and giving in marriage, it was corrupt. And we can see unfortunately the same thing happening even today. So we can unfortunately recognize these parallels and appreciate that God calls us to have the same father of Noah. Noah was a preacher of righteousness. He was very faithful and even in the end guess how successful he was in his preaching. How many were saved? Zero. His family. His family. Okay. Other than himself. Yeah. Yeah. Like outside his family. Zero. Yeah. Because it was him, his wife, his three sons, the wives of the three sons. And that was about it. And that's after preaching for so long. Maybe some of them, you know, maybe some people died along the way, which is highly likely. Did you preach? 120. and and you and I, God has called us to continue a work of missionary uh spirit, a work of evangelism. Matthew 24, sorry, um Matthew 28, God has called us and told us and given us a great commission to go out into the world and preach the gospel and teach people the teachings and the life and the messages and the doctrines of Jesus Christ. But we must appreciate um uh uh that it is not that the whole world will receive the gospel but as my brother said Matthew 24:14 that the gospel of the kingdom shall go out to the whole world for a witness that the world will hear the message. It's unfortunate. It's almost like like we know that we shall not be as successful as we would want but God says preach on anyway that even as Noah another forebearer of ours went before preached he himself received his reward. Obviously, there's a reward that Noah will expect in the world to come. But even at that time, the reward of safety from the flood. You and I, we might we we must preach the message of the gospel appreciating that not the whole world will will receive it, but God will still empower efforts one way or the other. So it's it's interesting that the when Christ is giving this um parable of what what will happen at least in the last days and gives the example of Noah and he says it will be like the days of Noah and then he speaks as though they were caught off guard. They were not really caught off guard. They were aware from 120 years of preaching. They just willfully for forgot. You know the Bible says in the book of um uh second Peter I think we just uh interacted with this second Peter chapter 3 uh verse three that above all you must understand that in the last days scoffers will come scoffing and following their own evil desires. They will say where is this coming he promised for 120 years. Noah preached and what did they say please? But it has never rained ever since our ancestors died. Everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation. But really has everything just goes gone on since the beginning of creation? That is not true. Peter actually makes a case. Even this world as we know it was not like that. He continues on to explain the world was first submerged in water and was on water before it was created and then God created it and it is possible that it is going to change. And today there are many people who have had the second coming of Christ Jesus and they would they would scoff and say ah but everyone has been saying that for a long time. In fact, what Peter says is that they are willingly ignorant of the fact that the whole world has continued like that since creation. So even today, Peter almost prophesied that today people will deny first of all even the flood account which itself was meant to be a type and a lesson for us. But if you deny the lesson then surely you cannot be taught by something that you think is a fable or mystical. It's like trying to say that you want to preach the gospel of Jesus, but then you believe that Jesus is a mythical or a legendary uh being. It is because you believe that Jesus was a real person that we're able to have faith in that story and in that message. It's the same way that today even codified in our science books. The idea of the flood is considered nonsense. You know that the world instead is full of you know like much rising and falling you know like um uh ice ages and things of that nature. various stages of of of perpetration of life and destruction doubt the messages we have in the word of God unfortunately yeah but Noah did not c his preaching for 120 years you know some of you may have preached and you're saying oh but I have been doing this they just don't listen I've given them up to their own lusts and desires but our metric of success is not how many people have come in and accepted your message in fact in Isaiah Isaiah says who will believe our report who shall We leave our report and we know they will not hear but we will not cease to preach. Why? It is the command of our Lord. It is the command of our Lord. My brother, I don't know if you you please just add up. Yeah, I think there's a comment you made about uh false science. Well, I'd like to perhaps maybe differ with you a bit in that it is it wasn't necessarily false science to them. It was evidence-based science because what Noah was saying was absurd. It was scientific. It was unconventional at that time that rain would come from the from the clouds. It had hitherto for not been an occurrence never been had. And so by by by virtue of even random control trials and systemic evidence by by the evidences of science, Noah was a certified madman. But nonetheless, I think this is where now we are called to embrace things by faith to enter into the realm of faith where God can speak those things which are aren't as those things which are. You know, as we as we're told, faith is the evidence of things hoped for. You know, uh the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. And so, um Noah was moving by faith. and all who are to be saved in these last days must to a certain extent move by faith because today science can come up with all manner of things. I'm not saying that the faith is not scientific per se, but more often than not, what uh human being might human beings may may sit together in uh in in conferences and in congresses and and pass as science more often than not may be in direct contravention of what uh of of of what God can do. And I'd like to believe that um I think science as we know it is the outworking of the laws of God. You know what God understanding creation? Yes. Understanding of creation. And I think God is not limited. God can change things. He can do he can do wondrous things. And so if my dear viewer, you're simply uh being led uh to disbelieve God like the men and women during the days of Noah, I'm sure Noah may have had wonderful points. But on this one point, many would have said this is a point of lunacy and many would have turned away because of the science back in the day did not support that. Then we today many are equally falling into that trap as those men and women back in the days of Noah. It's simply for us to understand that nature and our world as we know it are the outworking of God's laws and God's power. And God himself can change things in an in and accordance with his plans and with his desires here on earth. But ultimately uh I think another point that um was there in that day during the the wrath of the lamb is that when God delays it does not mean uh when a prophecy delays or when something doesn't happen uh in our generation or in our father's generation does not mean that that thing is not true that it's not going to happen. And so sometimes uh let's not interpret the delays of God as as as as um as a mis uh misreading of a prophecy or as um as as it not being true. Thank you. Um one more thing just to confirm that what you're saying about the rain is actually biblical. Genesis chapter 5 chapter 2 verse 5 and 6 it says that there was no rain upon the earth before before that time of the flood. Rather there was a kind of myster and again right now that must sound absurd to the present science but that was at that time that was the common knowledge common understanding it's just like that how that's how things what wasn't true to us is what is normal you know none of us can think that the ground was earth the the ground was watered from beneath but in the days of Noah that was science so that my point is science is literally in the palms of god he can change he can we can if god if god wills we can have negative gravity. All of us can float and and survive there. And so I think for us to bind ourselves simply to science and and and and uh to to the to the rejecting of God, then we run a risk of being like the antidolivians, those who lived in the days of Noah. Amen. Amen. Um and I want to uh just come back and ask um this question. You know when I grew up uh as uh in in within the Catholic church, we were taught how God will deal with uh the wicked and we were told he will put us in a furnace for fire and we will burn for a long time. Actually I also understood that um there are souls in purgatory who are burning and we can pray for them and they will come out of purgatory. How does God deal with the wicked? How does God destroy the wicked? I just want to start from there. Oh yeah. So I would say quickly um uh before allow my brother to say something, I just say the book of Jude tells us um the book of second Peter tell us that the judgment of of the wicked is like the judgment in Sodom and Gomorrah which was like one and it's it's that God destroyed them with fire and destroyed them utterly and annihilated them. It's the same thing that's going to happen um to the wicked utter and total annihilation. You know the question someone would ask how will God deal with the wicked? How will God how does God deal with the wicked? We've had many ideas of hellfire but what is what does the Bible teach about hellfire? Uh it's interesting. I think also sometimes we we ought to understand when Genesis and when in the creation story when God says that he made us in his image and likeness to a certain extent um up to a particular extent I think um it even refers to the way we we we reason because if you think about it like how petty can God be if I use that word or how how how vindictive how how uh what type of overlord is he to punish to such such an extent that for a sin that perhaps maybe for a life of sin let's say even lived to 80 years of pure and uh and and and and diluted sinning then you burn for eternity by the by the rules of law as we know them by our own rational by our own um fible minds as we are right now we we we believe in justice being uh equal to the crime you know and uh and and so I don't believe uh even just by reasoning by by by way of reasoning by by itself it paints a tyrannical god a god who um who who who wants to who wants absolute absolute uh obedience which is which is true but at the threat of what of eternal damnation eternal rather eternal suffering and and difficulties. But I would like us to consider in trying to understand exactly uh now as we turn to scripture exactly what what exactly u is this uh that's going on you know uh and in the Bible itself it says about about uh about the devil himself in the book of Ezekiel chapter 28 about the destruction of he who is I would say even when Christ is the father of the father of evil you know he's he he's intrinsically If if if if evil if sin was to be embodied, it would be the it would be in the devil. And this is what is written about the end of the devil in the book of Ezekiel chapter 28. And let me just begin from verse 17. The Bible sets the scene and says, "This mighty angel uh who fell." It says, "Thy heart was lifted up because of your beauty. You have corrupted your wisdom by reason of your brightness. I will cast thee to the ground. I will lay thee before kings that they may behold thee." It talks about the devil being falling down, you know, being punished. Then what else does it say? It says in verse 18, "Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude of thine iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffic. Therefore will I bring a fire from the midst of thee." Then it continues and says, "It shall devour thee, and I will bring thee to what? I will bring thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all them that behold thee." To ashes to ashes. He'll be brought to ashes. He doesn't say total destruction. Yes. Total destruction, you know, um as opposed to um to uh endless and endless continuous suffering because that is indeed the wages of sin is death, not eternal suffering, not eternal life, but in pain. The wages of sin is death. Even the devil himself will be turned to ashes. And and and in Malachi chapter 4, speaking again of the destruction of the wicked, the Bible writes and says, "For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yeah, and all that do wickedly shall be stable, and the day that cometh shall burn them up, say the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. But unto you that fear my name shall be the son shall the son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings. Verse three continues on to say and you shall tread down the wicked for they shall be ashes under the souls of your feet in the day that I shall do this say the Lord of hosts. And you know to to think that this this has been recorded in the word of God continually how God is going to deal with the wicked. And just so that you do not fail to understand what it is. God says I am going to give you an example of how this shall be done. In the book of second Peter chapter 2 um verse 4 to verse uh 11 I will read from verse um um five. It says, "If he did not spare the ancient world when he brought the flood and on its ungodly people, but protected Noah, a preacher of righteousness and seven others, if he condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, by burning them to ashes, similar to the destruction of the wicked, and made them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly, the story of Sodom and Gomorrah is given to us to show us the example of how God is going to end the destruction of the wicked. Not the ideas that oh God will start burning someone one finger, two fingers, one foot until they are completely done. He's going to burn them at once. The way he burnt Sodom and Gomorrah at once. But what was the scene of Sodom? Sodom and Gomorrah. What led to their destruction? What led to the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah? Um maybe my brother you can tell us this. Indeed uh the Bible records the book of Ezekiel um chapter 16. Let me find it. Ezekiel chapter 16 records uh the sins of Sodom and Gomorrah to up to a particular extent. And it begins um Ezekiel chapter 16 uh from verse 41. Um and the Bible records and says um and they it continues and says I will cause thee to cease from playing the hallot and thou shalt also give no higher anymore. It tells us that Israel had been playing what the Israel had been had been uh playing a lot. Verse 47 says h in verse 47 it says yet hast thou not walked after their ways nor done after their abominations but as if as if that were a very little thing thou was corrupted more than they in all thy ways that that Israel even perfected iniquity anded and exceeded the bounds. And then in verse 49 it says, "Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom. Pride, fullness of bread, and abundance of idleness was in her and in her daughters. Neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and the needy." The gospel, as Christ had had summarized it to us, the gospel is about being there for those who are less fortunate in society. That is true Christianity. It is about extending your hand to the poor and to the need. In fact uh when Christ is now speaking in the gospel context um in the new testament he says in this in the last days he would come and many would stand before him and say why are we why have we been rejected and then Christ would say I was hungry and you never fed me. I was in prison and you never visited me. I was in hospital and you never came around to say an encouraging word. Yes. Yes. And so true gospel is to take care of widows and orphans and those who are needy in society as opposed to self-reflection and and and and and and uh and focusing on yourself only. And this was the problem uh that Sodom had. They had food. They were proud and they had fullness of bread. There's not there's there's not an abundance of idols. There's nothing there's no um there's no mixture that can combust and result in wickedness than somebody who is idle and full at the same time. You know, you know when you're hungry, you can't be idle. You start looking for something. But suddenly somebody has a lot of a lot of money and a lot of time to waste and the result is usually an explosion of iniquity. Of iniquity. Thank you very much. Um let me just and you know sometimes we see it like the children of Israel they must have been shocked when Ezekiel wrote this and say you are even worse than Sodom and Gomorrah. Israel must have sat and thought of course we are better than them. Of course they were destroyed because of their sin. We cannot even exceed their sin. But the Bible said they exceeded their sin. Paul also gives us a list of similar sins being committed when he's writing in the book of Romans. And yet when he's talking about the Gentiles in the context of the Roman Empire that time and then tells the Jews, you are not very different from these people. You're not very different. Tell us about the context. What was happening in the Roman Empire? What kind of gross sins? And what was Paul telling them? So what Paul was telling them was that uh h among the Gentiles having lost um or having rejected what was obvious in nature that God is the creator. They embraced instead the worship of creeping things and idols and the like worshiped the creature rather rather than the creator. And as a result what happened? We are told in the book of Romans chapter one that as a result of that there was like a degradation. First of all, the degradation um uh we are told professing themselves to the wise, they be they became fools. Romans chapter 1:22 and they turned the glory of God into uh h basically the worshiing of idols and the like. And then immediately afterwards they began to engage in sexual vice. We are told that God gave them up to their lust and their own uncleanness. And verse 26, uh, for for for this cause God gave them up into vile affection. Even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. Verse 27, likewise also men leaving the natural use of the woman, banned in their last, one towards another, men with men, working that which is unsemly, and receiving in themselves the recompense of the error which was made. Actually, that's the same thing we find in the book of Ezekiel. Because in Ezekiel chapter 49 we are told that the sin of of of Sodom and Gomorrah began with what? Pride, fullness of bread, abundance of idleness and failure to care for those who are in need. And then we are told in verse 50 and and and then where is it? Verse 50, and they were haughty and committed abomination. And the result what we find in Genesis chapter 19 and 20 that um homosexuality for instance and sexual deviency. Yes, that's how you get that sort of it was the product of that kind of culture that has effaced God completely focusing on the flesh and the result is always that the flesh will consume and and ultimately corrupt and destroy and that's precisely what happened in Sodom and Gomorrah what happened in Rome in fact there is um there's a a a doctor who actually went through various empires and you could see a cycle of all empires that empires when they're young they have like very vibrant and the like they focus on on natural laws and and and and obedience to the natural laws and things like that, laws in family and society and things. But then as they progress they become very complacent and as they become complacent what happens? They become corrupt and then suddenly those sexual vices enter into almost all the cultures and as a result the family breaks down and the society weakens and collapses and the and and and he pointed out that it is a cycle that happens throughout history. It's a it's quite unfortunate and we know that in the last days the whole world shall be of a similar and quite unfortunate nature because we are told that of um of the end of the world that just as um uh Noah's time was a type also Sodom and Gomorra was another type of what will happen just before Jesus Christ returns. You know it is very sad to imagine that the sins that are things that Paul will write and say these sins should not even be heard among you. But he says these things are being recorded in among you which you judge Sodom and Gomera so harshly but the Bible writes and says that we are just like them. You know when Paul is writing during the time uh to uh the the book of Romans, they're living during the time of the Roman Empire when one emperor is uh has killed so many people just to get into power when their mothers were probably um committing incest with their sons when their children were turning against each other. It was such a vile empire during the time when Paul is writing their sins, calling them malicious, murder, murderers, people full of envys and jealousies. And yet he says, "But you are just like them. You are just like them." It must have shocked the Jews. Yet it is an awakening call to every Christian that we is we are indeed prone to those sins as well because we are of like flesh. You know Christ writes and says in the book of Markapter 6 11 that it will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah on that day than for us. Why? We have committed the same sins that Sodom and Gomorrah committed. And yet we have had more light than Sodom and Gomorrah did. It is indeed uh it causes us to pause and reflect and pray for ourselves indeed lest we fall. These things have been written for our examples. But the question is before God destroys the wicked, before God comes and destroys the wicked the way he did Sodom and Gomorrah, will he have a review? What kind of judge will God be? Indeed, um, the judge of all the earth. The story is recorded in the book of Genesis 18 from verse 17-32. add uh leave it to the reader to uh to the listener also to hopefully you're following with your own Bible and you take time and consider that story. It's a story of um what happens before Sodom and Gomorrah is destroyed and the story begins and he tells us that one day uh Abraham it begins with Abraham. Abraham is just uh seated and then suddenly he he sees some guests and he he invites them in into his home. Bible records uh from verse 17 um uh once he has uh they've come and uh and and they've done so many things including prophesying that Sarah will get a child. In verse 16 the Bible records these there were three men and as they were arising they looked towards Sodom and uh Abraham went with them to bring them on the way. So many lessons there for us. Even Abraham being a very wonderful host he just saw three strangers and he invited them to his home. Later on in the gospels we are told let us be good to strangers you know because some angels have entertained have entertained angels and beyond beyond um entertaining them you see what Abraham does he walks them out he he takes he's sort of like seeing them off he he he wants to to to really make their journey to to to be so convenient to them and to be of help as much as possible and eventually as they're walking towards Sodom eventually what happens the Bible records In verse 17, and the Lord said, shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do? It's a question. In Amos 3 and:7, we are told, surely the Lord does nothing unless he reveals his secret to his servants, the prophets. Sometimes um and that's the beauty of the gospel also to a certain extent. And as much as we know that God that God is powerful and he and he can do so many things, he has executive power, he sort of subjects himself to a modest operandi. And God has subjected himself to certain things. Uh he's got a way of of of of of of operating a way in which he does his his things. And one of the things that he does is he will not do anything without informing um his people here on earth. He will not do anything here on earth anything um what whatsoever without uh especially if it's something that is significant without speaking and telling it to somebody uh whom he is close with here on earth the secret of the Lord is indeed with those that fear him the book of Psalms continue indeed and so God tells uh says he will not go and do this thing and then in verse 18 it says seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. And then he continues and says in verse 20, "And the Lord said, because of the cry of Sodom, because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievious." That's interesting. What does it mean that the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great? Maybe you can indulge me as panelists. Maybe maybe before we we we go into um the scene of Sodom and Gomorrah, I just want us to see the interaction between Abraham and the Lord and um Abraham doing the work of questioning God. I I maybe if you can just read uh for us that verse in verse 25 and talk a bit more about that. Okay. Yeah. So um in essence God is God God tells um Abraham that he's going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah was great and their sin was grievous. And then he continues and tells them um be before he does that God says I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it which is come unto me. If not I will know. You see God himself taking an initiative and going to do what is what we what I would call investigation. Some would call it this is the first type of investigative judgment. You know, God comes down himself and he looks and he says, "Okay, there's a there's been a there's been complaints and and cries. Now he's he's coming himself and he's going to do a work." And then he allows the men to go uh before him. And then in verse 23, now it is now God and Abraham left together. And then Abraham interacts with God in that in that it tells us the way the humility of God also you know as a ruler as a creator to really have a conversation with a being that he that he has created. It's the way we interact with AI you know sometimes you know and uh it's interesting it's interesting almost um almost mirroring that interaction are we really kind uh to the to the to the things that we have produced or we threaten them you know and and and and we say do what you must do what I what I have said and so eventually Abraham now is able to ask God this question will thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked that's interest that's an interesting question almost questioning the character of God. What type of person are you? Are you just going to You've had a cry. Yes. Okay. Some something bad is happening there. People are complaining. A lot of evil has has been done there. People have been taken advantage of and uh etc., etc. But surely there must be some good people there. Will you destroy the righteous with the wicked? Then in verse 24, he says, "Per adventure there may there are 50 righteous people within that city. Will thou destroy and not spare the place for 50 righteous people there? And then what does God say that be far from thee to do after this manner to slay the righteous with the wicked? This is this is Abraham telling God I have understood you. I'm not questioning your character. I know you cannot destroy the righteous with the wicked. I it must be far from you, you know. And then he's uh shall not the judge of all the earth do right. Do right. That's a powerful uh statement, a statement and also a question. And then what does God say? God says, "If I find in Sodom 50 righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sex." That the all of Sodom and Gomorrah would have been spared if 50 righteous people were found. Of the five cities, Sodom, Gomorrah, Adma, and Bella. So five cities. So only 10 per 10 per city. If only 50 people were found. But then realize Abraham now thinks and wonders, hey, perhaps 50 is a high number. But begs the question, is a 144,000 a literal or a figurative number? If 50 is difficult to find in this time, with the Lord find 144 in the whole world who knows towards the end of the times. And he goes down until he gets to how many people? 10. He he negotiates. And the Bible continues in verse 28. He goes up to way and he says perhaps they lack five of the 50. will you destroy for lack of five? And you find 45. He continues and says, I will not do it for 40's sake. And he continues and continues. In verse 31, it says, and he said, behold now I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord by adventure. There'll be 20 who will be found there. And the Lord said uh if he finds 10, eventually goes all the way to 10. And he said, I will not destroy it for 10 sec. That's interesting. And the Lord went his way as soon as he had left communing with Abraham and Abraham returned unto his place. Amen. Amen. You know, David writes and says in the book of Psalms that you know, God forgive me and I want I want it to the record to be taken of me so that even when you are judged, you may be found right. That the judgment here is not just for Sodom for God to go and judge Sodom. But you can see Abraham, one of the righteous is also there examining the character of God. God actually calls us to examine his character. Come and see whether what I do is righteous. Come and and and conclude whether that which I do is righteous or is wicked. And he welcomes people. Come and reason with me and judge for yourself. And and and I want us to go um into that line of thought. As God is being judged and as the saints are being judged, how is God going to perform the investigative judgment in these last days as he's destroying bringing the destruction of the kingdoms of this earth and establishing his kingdom? Thank you. I I think people may cringe when they hear as God is being judged, but what you mean more is that God has all understanding, all knowledge, all truth. He knows all things. He knows the end from the beginning. So even in the case of Sodom and Gomorrah, he knew exactly the number. He knew that Lot alone was was jud was was was righteous. But he came anyway so that his judgment would be transparent. You know, in this country and I don't know this world in general, we ask ourselves, do we have this level of transparency um of judgment that God himself so freely manifests? And it's the same thing he saw with Adam and Eve. He came and asked, where are you? He came to Cain and asked the question where is Abel your brother? Not because he didn't know. Um when they were building the tower of Babel he came down and says I want to come down and see what exactly they are doing. So so it is actually God's emo to engage in a work of investigative judgment. That that is normal that God doing a work of investigative judgment is actually the normal thing that he always does all the time. Now in the book of Daniel we are given um many specifics and I'll very briefly go through that. In the book of Daniel chapter 7 reading verse 9 we are given from verse 1 to 8 we are given a list of kingdoms of um a lion with eagle's wings. Um a bear with um with three ribs in its mouth. Um a leopard with four heads and a nondescript beast with um with 10 horns. And then a little horn that grows up and becomes great. And then that little horn persecutes God's people. And then as the little horn is persecuting God's people, in verse 9, we are told that there is actually a work of judgment that begins. I beheld to the thrones, Daniel 7:9, were cast down and the ancient of days did sit. Verse 10, we are told um that there were thousands that came and there were books that were opened. It was actually a work of judgment. And then in verse 13 and 14, we are told also that the son of man came to the ancient of days and there was given to him. So basically the end of the judgment is determined that that kingdom all those kingdoms were judged to have been un unworthy of of of of even that capacity of dominion and the and and and their right of of of dominion was taken from them and given to the lamb and given to the the the people of the lamb, the saints of the lamp. That work um we are told happens around the time of the little horn. So we know at least the little horn um rules um obviously after the time of Jesus Christ the little horn rules throughout the middle ages and then during its the time of its reign that is when this work of investigation begins. Um reading in verse 26 and verse 27 we are told that the judgment shall sit and they shall take away the dominium of the little horn and consume to destroy it unto the end. um and the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be given to the saints and the people. So we can see that interesting contrast on the earth we have nations roving fighting against each other um even attacking God's people but in heaven that work is witnessed it is reviewed and their their works and the works of all the wicked of the earth are found to be unjust and in the very end the the judgment is is ended and the kingdom and dominion are given to go h to the saints to God's people and you know it's very interesting someone would here the judgment is coming and they will probably tremble and shake. But there's one very comforting um verse in Daniel chapter um in Daniel chapter 7 verse 22 that says that this judgment is made in favor of the saints the most high. It is made in your favor. We should actually be excited about the judgment eventually. Now the saints of God will be vindicated. We do not need to look at the judgment and fear. The grace of God today covers us because of Christ Jesus who sits in the judgment. The one who died for us. Bought I mean gave himself for us for a ransom. That man is the one who sits as judge of all the earth. And will the judge of all the earth do righteously? Indeed he will. He judgeth righteously. And he calls you and I to sit with him, examine him so that in that day he will be justified when he shall judge. He will be justified when he shall judge. We will conclude there and we'll continue again next Sabbath. Please join us um the same time on Sabbath, New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth Gong Avenue. My brother Raphael, kindly pray with us as we close. Let's believe and pray. Our kind and loving father and master what in heaven. We thank you and praise your name for being such a magnanimous ruler and such a loving God that you invite us to look at the books and to look at your working process to look at how you arrive to the decisions in which you have. Indeed, it is simply marvelous and such a great condensation on your part. To this end I pray dear Lord that we be found on the right side of the judgment. I pray may your grace uh be sufficient for us and I pray that your holy spirit together with our brother and our man's servant our lord and our savior Jesus Christ make intercession for us and help us to make it from here to the hereafter is our most humble prayer this evening and uh whatever time in which uh the viewers are viewing this in Jesus we pray and believe. Amen. Amen. Amen. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[7.8s] Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you
[10.6s] so much for joining us today as we study
[13.8s] the Sabbath school lesson for this week.
[16.4s] With me today, I am joined here at New
[19.2s] Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth
[21.4s] Gong Avenue, by my brother and my
[23.7s] husband who will be studying this lesson
[25.8s] with us. I would like them to introduce
[27.7s] themselves even before we begin. Um, we
[30.1s] can start with you. Uh, my name is
[32.0s] Enango Rafa. It's a pleasure to be here.
[34.5s] Thank you for coming. Thank you. My name
[36.8s] is Jafet Ron. It's a pleasure. Thank
[38.7s] you. And my name is Jess Rono. I am glad
[41.8s] to be here with you today. Before we
[44.2s] begin this lesson, I would like to ask
[46.3s] uh Jaffet kindly pray with us. Okay,
[48.6s] let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank
[50.9s] you for the opportunity you're giving us
[52.2s] to study um uh this lesson and to whom
[55.4s] the ends of the world are come. May your
[57.4s] holy spirit be our guide and may Jesus
[59.8s] Christ be glorified in Jesus name I
[61.8s] pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Today we are
[65.4s] studying the lesson upon whom the ends
[68.3s] have come. This quarter we have been dis
[71.8s] discussing the images, symbols, figures
[74.7s] and illusions that God uses in prophecy
[77.8s] to prepare his children in these last
[80.0s] days. Now in this particular lesson we
[83.1s] are going to delve further and look at
[85.7s] some some particular accounts given in
[88.2s] the Old Testament especially and Christ
[91.3s] references to teach us again to
[94.0s] prefigure what will happen to the
[95.8s] children of God in the last days. Our
[98.6s] key text comes from the book of 1
[100.6s] Corinthians chapter 10 verse 11 and 12.
[104.4s] But brother Raphael, kindly read that
[106.0s] for us. All right. Uh 1 Corinthians 10
[109.8s] 11 and 12 reading from the New King
[111.8s] James Version. The Bible records and
[113.4s] says, "Now all these things happened to
[116.2s] them as examples, and they were written
[118.7s] for admonition upon whom the ends of the
[122.3s] ages have come. Therefore, let him who
[125.3s] thinks his stands take heed lest he
[128.0s] fall. Amen. You know, Paul is writing
[130.0s] and saying that these things and he was
[132.2s] giving an account of what happened to
[134.4s] the children of Israel and told us that
[137.1s] us who are reading these things about
[139.8s] what happened in ages past that they the
[143.0s] records have been preserved for our sake
[146.1s] so that we can learn from them and so
[148.7s] that we can understand the way maybe
[150.5s] some of them fell. We are also prone to
[152.8s] falling and we can also learn how they
[155.3s] overcame so that if we are to overcome
[157.9s] we can follow the same path. But the
[160.6s] Bible is very very beautiful. You know
[163.8s] there are some churches and communities
[166.0s] today that believe that the only way you
[168.4s] can understand passages certain passages
[170.6s] of scripture is by reading a single
[172.6s] text. They remove either the context
[174.6s] from scripture or they fail to go
[177.0s] through other passages to help them
[178.9s] explain. You know the Bible has not just
[181.4s] taught us about the last days just
[184.2s] through the books of Daniel and
[186.1s] Revelation. We are told that even in
[189.2s] other records in other stories we find
[191.5s] in the Bible we can find lessons that
[194.4s] will give us prophetic messages that are
[197.3s] important for us today. The Bible says
[199.8s] in the book of Isaiah chapter 28
[203.4s] um in I will read from verse 9. The
[205.8s] Bible says, "Whom shall he teach
[208.1s] knowledge? And who shall he make to
[210.6s] understand doctrine? Them that are
[213.4s] winded from the milk and drawn from the
[216.0s] breast. For precept must be upon
[219.4s] precept, precept upon precept, line upon
[222.9s] line, line upon line, here a little and
[226.3s] there a little." that the understanding
[229.2s] we have of some of the messages we have
[232.1s] in the book of revelation and Daniel, we
[234.6s] have not just found them there. We can
[236.5s] go back to other passages of scripture,
[239.0s] precept upon precept, and confirm that
[241.6s] our understanding indeed is true. And
[244.9s] that is what we will be going to do this
[247.2s] week. We will see many of the messages
[249.5s] in the book of Daniel and Revelation
[251.8s] were already revealed to the children of
[253.8s] God. Those messages were already
[255.5s] recorded even in their own experiences
[258.3s] all the way from Genesis. And as we go
[261.0s] now into the Sunday part to discuss the
[263.8s] wrath of the lamb. My brother, I just
[265.8s] want you to take us through this and um
[268.6s] tell us the condition and also the
[271.8s] reaction of the people when Christ will
[274.3s] be coming a second time. What will be
[276.1s] their condition? What will be also their
[278.2s] state of mind? Indeed. Uh, it's an
[281.1s] interesting title if you if you if you
[283.4s] if you let it linger in your mind and
[285.0s] you think about it, the wrath of the
[287.1s] lamb. A lamb is an animal that is known
[290.1s] to be kind and generous and and and and
[293.8s] very peaceful. Now, to think that a lamb
[297.0s] can actually be to have wrath, that's
[300.5s] that's that's something. But the Bible
[302.6s] uh indeed tells us that there is in
[304.6s] scripture and in prophecy recorded a day
[307.4s] which is known as uh the day in which
[310.0s] the wrath of the lamb is unleashed. And
[312.6s] this is found in the book of revelation
[314.2s] chapter 6 reading from verses 12-1 17.
[317.7s] And if you would indulge me let us turn
[319.5s] there together. And the bible records it
[321.8s] is uh the period of the opening of the
[324.2s] sixth seal. And the Bible records and
[326.2s] says, "There was a great earthquake, and
[327.8s] the sun became as black as sackloth of
[330.6s] air, and the moon became as blood. The
[334.1s] stars of heaven fell unto the earth,
[336.2s] even as a fig tree cast her untimely
[338.8s] figs, when she shaken over a mighty
[341.4s] wind." 14 says, "And the heaven departed
[344.1s] as a scroll when it is rolled together,
[345.8s] and every mountain and island were moved
[347.8s] out of their places." 15 says, "And the
[351.4s] kings of the earth, and the great men,
[353.5s] and the rich men, and the chief
[355.2s] captains, and the mighty men, and every
[357.4s] bond man, and every free man hid
[359.2s] themselves in the dens, and in the rocks
[362.0s] of the mountains." And verse 16 says,
[364.7s] "And say to the mountains, and the rocks
[367.0s] fall on us, and hide us from the face of
[369.6s] him that siteth on the throne, and from
[371.8s] the wrath of the lamb, for the day of
[375.0s] his wrath is come." And the question
[376.9s] that is being asked there is who shall
[379.3s] be able to stand. I think in prior
[381.3s] lessons we were able to answer those who
[383.0s] will stand those who would have heeded
[385.2s] to the warnings and the messages of the
[387.5s] lamb. But it is significant in that this
[390.3s] passage is telling us that the kings of
[393.0s] the earth and great men, rich men, chief
[396.5s] captains and mighty men and every bond
[399.1s] man. We live in a world in which we know
[401.7s] some great men in our world today. uh
[404.2s] periodically there's usually like the
[405.7s] Forbes list of the richest men you know
[408.5s] um I don't think there's ever a list for
[410.4s] the most spiritual or most prayerful but
[413.1s] we have metrics by which we can measure
[415.0s] the achievements of men and by and using
[417.5s] them we able to say these are the top 40
[420.2s] under 40 etc etc but the Bible is saying
[423.4s] there comes a time that even the
[424.8s] captains of industry do not have answers
[427.4s] to the questions that uh that were that
[430.2s] are being asked and such a time as this
[432.6s] is the Day of the great wrath of the
[435.1s] lamb. And the question is who shall be
[438.0s] able to stand? We see them running and
[440.7s] hiding themselves asking the mountains
[443.3s] and the rocks to fall on them and to
[445.4s] hide them from their face. It is better
[447.7s] they'd rather a mountain falls on them
[450.2s] than they face. The lamp must truly be
[454.0s] an an interesting and a frightening day.
[456.0s] You know the way as a child when
[458.2s] lightning strikes and then the thunder
[460.1s] follows uh you you what what you you
[464.5s] what you do as a child as a young child
[466.2s] you'd run for shelter later on.
[468.3s] Sometimes it can still happen to you as
[469.4s] an adult depending on whether you've
[471.1s] you've overcome your phobias but there
[473.4s] there are things that can happen and and
[475.0s] you sort of sometimes want to find
[477.1s] shelter. I remember an example somebody
[479.3s] gave that uh when they are on a plane
[482.4s] and they're too turbulence and they feel
[483.9s] like the plane is going to is going is
[486.0s] going to is going to uh yeah to like to
[489.3s] crash. Yeah. It's going to it's going
[490.7s] down. Then they suddenly hold on to
[492.7s] their seats like the seat is not part of
[494.5s] the plane that is also going not that is
[496.2s] also going down. You know sometimes we
[498.2s] want to hide and we want to find a
[499.8s] shelter but indeed it is a wonderful day
[505.0s] a mighty day. Sometimes uh certain
[507.2s] certain prophets have said a strange
[509.4s] day, the day of God's wrath. And so it's
[512.5s] speaking to us uh that indeed um the
[515.3s] lost are crying out. They are wondering,
[518.6s] they are wondering that um what exactly
[522.0s] can they be able to do? Who shall be
[524.0s] able to stand? And the Bible, let me
[525.8s] just ask you a question. How do they
[528.7s] know who the lamb is? I think the Bible
[532.7s] tells us uh in Matthew 24:14 that prior
[537.2s] to this great day of the wrath of the
[539.3s] lamb that the gospel would have been
[541.1s] preached to them. One of the prerequites
[544.7s] uh for the gospel for this for the day
[547.3s] of the of the great day of the wrath of
[549.2s] the lamb to come is that the gospel
[551.1s] shall have been preached to all the
[553.3s] living creatures to every corner to
[555.2s] every nation, kindred, tongue and
[556.7s] people. And so uh that is part of the um
[560.2s] the uh the Christian's duty to proclaim
[563.2s] the gospel and there therein hasten the
[566.2s] coming of our Lord and our savior Jesus
[568.2s] Christ. Very very interesting. You know
[571.0s] it reminds me of the story of
[573.8s] Nebuchadnezzar and the three Hebrew
[576.2s] boys. You know it it it it always
[579.7s] everyone who will read that story would
[581.5s] always ask themselves how did
[583.6s] Nebuchadnezzar know who is the son of
[586.0s] man? How did he know when he saw the
[588.2s] fourth man and say, "Oh, I see not three
[590.6s] men but four men and the fourth is like
[594.2s] the son of man." How did he know how
[596.1s] Jesus looks like? Indeed, it's the same
[598.0s] thing I think Paul addresses later on in
[600.2s] the gospels and it says, "How can they
[602.1s] hear if there's no preacher? How can
[605.2s] they know the gospel if if nobody goes
[607.4s] and teaches them?" So, someone must have
[609.0s] told somebody must have told
[610.6s] Nebuchadnezzar. Somebody must have
[612.0s] modeled for Nebuchadnezzar who exactly
[614.2s] the son of man is. That was the work of
[616.1s] Ananiah, Misha, and Daniel. And so it's
[619.2s] the question is how if they're able to
[622.2s] identify the lamb and they know him and
[624.3s] they heard the gospel, why are they
[627.3s] crying for the stones to fall on them? I
[630.5s] think it is simply the outworking of the
[632.7s] choices that they have made. These are
[634.5s] men and women who are comfortable in the
[636.6s] earth. Indeed, if you read in certain um
[638.6s] in certain uh portions of the scripture
[641.2s] when it when it is speaking about uh the
[643.4s] woman of Babylon, it says that the
[645.4s] merchants men of the world had uh had
[648.2s] been had been made drunk and some had
[650.8s] become um prosperous and rich by reason
[654.4s] of their relationship uh with this woman
[656.9s] with this false church. And sometimes
[659.3s] men and women compromise truth.
[661.6s] Sometimes men and women reject the call
[663.4s] of Christ in their lives for earthly
[665.8s] conveniences. You see the Bible says, it
[668.5s] begins, it's interesting that it begins
[669.8s] and it says the kings of the earth and
[672.2s] great men, the rich men and chief
[675.0s] captains. But then it doesn't end there.
[676.7s] Eventually, it summarizes and captures
[678.6s] everybody and it says every bond man and
[681.4s] every free man. Indeed, it's telling us
[684.0s] that the it's it it this this group not
[686.5s] only entails the the creme de la creme
[688.8s] of society back as we know it, but also
[692.9s] uh those lesser men. So if if by the
[696.3s] metrics of men um as the Bible um may
[700.1s] may say and as we know in society there
[701.8s] are those whom we we we we sort of um
[705.0s] consider um um uh lesser in society
[708.8s] because of social economic uh power and
[711.3s] ability. But nonetheless all uh the
[715.2s] great day of the wrath of the of of the
[717.0s] lamb cuts across both the rich and the
[719.7s] poor. The only difference is when the
[723.4s] day of the great the wrath wrath of the
[725.4s] lamb comes is whether like the story of
[729.7s] Noah whether we'll be found having
[732.4s] entered into the ark or we'll be found
[735.0s] outside the ark where the rain is
[737.2s] coming. And indeed the Bible uh the the
[739.5s] the lesson writer continues and speaks
[741.8s] to us in Matthew speaks to us for the
[743.8s] story in Matthew 24. Matthew 24 uh from
[747.2s] around uh verses 36 to 44. We're called
[750.2s] to consider and this is a story in which
[752.2s] Christ himself now is giving an example
[754.7s] of how it shall be before the setting
[758.2s] before this great day of the wrath of
[760.3s] the lamb. He begins and says, "But of
[762.5s] the day and hour knoweth, no man, not
[766.0s] the angels of heaven, but my father
[768.1s] only." But then he goes ahead and
[770.1s] describes uh the the the prevailing
[773.0s] circumstances and and the atmosphere
[775.1s] before that day surrounding that day.
[777.2s] And it says, "But as the days of Noah
[779.6s] were, so shall also the coming of the
[782.2s] son of man be." For as in the days that
[784.5s] were before the flood, what were they
[786.5s] doing? Were they listening to the
[787.7s] gospel? Were they appreciating uh
[790.3s] Christ's uh sacrifice on their behalf?
[792.6s] Were they uh humbly humbling themselves
[795.8s] and and calling upon themselves the
[797.6s] merits of the blood of Christ? No. The
[799.5s] Bible says what were they doing instead?
[801.7s] They were eating and drinking, marrying
[804.2s] and giving into marriage until the day
[807.0s] that Noah entered into the ark, the
[810.0s] antitypical day um the typical day of
[813.8s] the wrath of the lamb. The Bible
[815.6s] continues and says, "And they knew not
[817.4s] until the flood came and took them all
[819.8s] away. So also shall the coming of the
[822.5s] son of man be." It is interesting also
[824.6s] that there are parallels between these
[826.0s] two stories that even when when that day
[829.4s] came in which it started it it started
[831.4s] raining for the first time in earth's
[833.1s] history rain coming from the clouds that
[836.0s] the great men and women looked for great
[838.6s] animals and they looked for great
[839.9s] heights. the pen of inspiration for the
[841.8s] wonderful book Patrick's and prophets.
[843.7s] It says that they tied their children
[845.6s] and they tied themselves to these great
[847.3s] beasts that were seeking shelter to the
[849.4s] tall animals. The tall animals and and
[851.8s] it's interesting that once again when
[853.7s] all things fail, man turns to nature for
[856.2s] help. Similarly, in the this great day
[858.2s] of the wrath of the lamb of man, men and
[860.2s] women are turning to the mountains and
[861.9s] the hills and they're saying fall on us
[863.8s] and cover us. They're looking for
[865.1s] shelter. But lo and
[867.6s] behold, he who is uh the maker, even
[871.4s] nature itself bows down to its creator.
[874.2s] And there can be no hiding from the
[876.6s] great day of the wrath of the lamb and
[879.0s] from the face of uh of of the of the
[881.5s] lamb. But the question still remains,
[883.3s] who shall be able to stand? Who shall be
[885.4s] able to stand? Indeed. I just coming in
[888.6s] from the story of Noah. I I I I want you
[892.0s] to go in and just explain what was what
[895.2s] was the condition of the people during
[897.4s] the time of Noah. What are some of the
[899.1s] sins we are seeing during that time and
[901.1s] how did Noah respond? Thank you. So in
[904.2s] the book of second Peter chapter 3 verse
[908.2s] uh 5 we find Peter speaking and saying
[911.1s] something very interesting. He tells us
[913.5s] that at that particular time, actually
[915.8s] at the time of Peter, when Peter was
[917.4s] living, uh this they are willingly
[919.6s] ignorant of that by the word of the of
[922.1s] God, the heavens were of old and the
[923.9s] earth standing out of water and in water
[926.8s] whereby the world that then was being
[928.8s] overflowed with water perished. So h
[932.5s] Peter says what he says that the people
[934.6s] are willingly ignorant of this fact. Why
[937.2s] would Peter say this? Because Peter
[939.6s] recognized what you and I can recognize
[941.5s] if you do a very simple study of history
[943.8s] that the story of the flood is fairly
[945.9s] common. That almost across different
[948.6s] cultures that could not possibly have
[950.3s] communicated with each other have like
[953.8s] sometimes strikingly similar elements of
[956.4s] of that particular story. all the way
[958.8s] from China to parts of central Africa to
[962.7s] parts of Europe to parts even of um
[965.4s] South America you find elements of this
[968.2s] singular story not the story of I don't
[970.6s] know maybe like the rocks falling or
[972.5s] something or story of a great typh like
[975.4s] great wind or whatever or a great uh um
[978.2s] wildfire but of a flood that destroys
[980.9s] the whole world because of the sin e of
[983.6s] the people and a few people because of
[986.1s] the the agency of the god gods as those
[988.8s] different cultures would believe has
[990.6s] preserved them. So it's interesting that
[992.9s] that story was so common and so Peter
[994.6s] was saying that people at that time were
[997.1s] willingly ignorant of that fact and e of
[1001.3s] what fact in particular the fact that
[1003.3s] the whole world was destroyed with the
[1005.2s] flood. I think my brother Rafael has
[1007.0s] taken us through Matthew 24, but I just
[1009.0s] want to us to zero in on a few things
[1011.7s] that Jesus Christ points out as
[1013.9s] prevalent during that particular time
[1015.8s] just before the flood came. Matthew 24,
[1019.2s] reading from verse 37 to 39, we are told
[1024.3s] that as the days of Noah were, so shall
[1027.0s] also the coming of the son of man be. So
[1029.8s] as in the days of Noah, men were doing
[1031.6s] what? Number one, they were eating and
[1034.0s] drinking, marrying and giving in
[1035.9s] marriage until the day that Noah entered
[1038.3s] into the ark. And remember that Noah was
[1040.8s] a preacher of righteousness. He
[1042.8s] consistently preached that message for
[1045.6s] 120 years that the world is going to be
[1047.9s] destroyed with a flood. Get in to the
[1050.2s] ark. And as that message was being
[1052.7s] preached and the people knew that the
[1054.2s] message was being preached, they
[1055.8s] continued eating and drinking, marrying
[1057.8s] and giving a marriage. So that's point
[1059.4s] number one that the people were
[1061.5s] preoccupied with the daily aspects of
[1063.9s] life and and and willingly kept
[1066.2s] themselves from that knowledge that that
[1068.6s] there was a judgment coming upon the
[1070.2s] earth. But number two, in the book of
[1072.2s] Genesis, we are told something special
[1074.0s] about that preoccupation of the people.
[1076.3s] Genesis chapter 6, we are told um
[1080.0s] reading from verse one until verse 6,
[1083.7s] but I will zero in on verse 5. It says
[1087.6s] that God saw that the wickedness of man
[1089.8s] was great in the earth and that every
[1092.4s] imagination of the thought of his heart
[1095.0s] was only wicked continually
[1099.0s] that every imagination so and and in
[1101.5s] fact even later he says in verse 12 11
[1105.0s] the earth was corrupt before God and the
[1107.1s] earth was filled with violence h and god
[1109.6s] looked upon the earth and behold it was
[1111.4s] corrupt for the flesh have corrupted his
[1113.9s] way upon the earth. So point number two,
[1116.3s] number one, the people were preoccupied
[1118.6s] with the daily aspects of life. But
[1120.1s] number two, those preoccupations were
[1122.5s] corrupted. So as they were eating and
[1124.3s] drinking, it was corrupt. As we're
[1126.0s] marrying and giving in marriage, it was
[1128.1s] corrupt. And we can see unfortunately
[1129.9s] the same thing happening even today. So
[1132.6s] we can unfortunately recognize these
[1134.5s] parallels and appreciate that God calls
[1136.9s] us to have the same father of Noah. Noah
[1139.7s] was a preacher of righteousness. He was
[1141.6s] very faithful and even in the end guess
[1143.9s] how successful he was in his preaching.
[1146.0s] How many were saved? Zero.
[1148.6s] His family. His family. Okay. Other than
[1150.5s] himself. Yeah. Yeah. Like outside his
[1152.7s] family. Zero. Yeah. Because it was him,
[1155.0s] his wife, his three sons, the wives of
[1157.1s] the three sons. And that was about it.
[1159.4s] And that's after preaching for so long.
[1160.8s] Maybe some of them, you know, maybe some
[1162.2s] people died along the way, which is
[1163.3s] highly likely. Did you preach? 120. and
[1167.0s] and you and I, God has called us to
[1169.4s] continue a work of missionary uh spirit,
[1172.2s] a work of evangelism. Matthew 24, sorry,
[1175.2s] um Matthew 28, God has called us and
[1177.8s] told us and given us a great commission
[1179.8s] to go out into the world and preach the
[1181.9s] gospel and teach people the teachings
[1184.5s] and the life and the messages and the
[1185.9s] doctrines of Jesus Christ. But we must
[1188.1s] appreciate um uh uh that it is not that
[1191.2s] the whole world will receive the gospel
[1192.9s] but as my brother said Matthew 24:14
[1195.8s] that the gospel of the kingdom shall go
[1197.9s] out to the whole world for a witness
[1199.9s] that the world will hear the message.
[1202.1s] It's unfortunate. It's almost like like
[1204.9s] we know that we shall not be as
[1206.4s] successful as we would want but God says
[1208.6s] preach on anyway that even as Noah
[1211.2s] another forebearer of ours went before
[1213.7s] preached he himself received his reward.
[1215.8s] Obviously, there's a reward that Noah
[1217.3s] will expect in the world to come. But
[1219.1s] even at that time, the reward of safety
[1221.0s] from the flood. You and I, we might we
[1223.4s] we must preach the message of the gospel
[1225.5s] appreciating that not the whole world
[1227.6s] will will receive it, but God will still
[1230.3s] empower efforts one way or the other. So
[1233.0s] it's it's interesting that the when
[1235.8s] Christ is giving this um parable of what
[1238.9s] what will happen at least in the last
[1240.6s] days and gives the example of Noah and
[1243.3s] he says it will be like the days of Noah
[1245.4s] and then he speaks as though they were
[1247.0s] caught off guard. They were not really
[1248.6s] caught off guard. They were aware from
[1252.2s] 120 years of preaching. They just
[1255.6s] willfully for forgot. You know the Bible
[1258.6s] says in the book of um uh second Peter I
[1262.2s] think we just uh interacted with this
[1264.2s] second Peter chapter 3 uh verse three
[1267.6s] that above all you must understand that
[1270.5s] in the last days scoffers will come
[1274.2s] scoffing and following their own evil
[1277.1s] desires. They will say where is this
[1280.2s] coming he promised for 120 years. Noah
[1283.6s] preached and what did they say please?
[1285.8s] But it has never rained ever since our
[1288.9s] ancestors died. Everything goes on as it
[1291.8s] has since the beginning of creation. But
[1294.8s] really has everything just goes gone on
[1297.6s] since the beginning of creation? That is
[1299.6s] not true. Peter actually makes a case.
[1301.6s] Even this world as we know it was not
[1303.7s] like that. He continues on to explain
[1305.5s] the world was first submerged in water
[1308.3s] and was on water before it was created
[1311.6s] and then God created it and it is
[1314.4s] possible that it is going to change. And
[1316.8s] today there are many people who have had
[1318.8s] the second coming of Christ Jesus and
[1321.0s] they would they would scoff and say ah
[1324.4s] but everyone has been saying that for a
[1326.5s] long time. In fact, what Peter says is
[1329.0s] that they are willingly ignorant of the
[1330.9s] fact that the whole world has continued
[1333.2s] like that since creation. So even today,
[1335.5s] Peter almost prophesied that today
[1337.6s] people will deny first of all even the
[1339.4s] flood account which itself was meant to
[1341.4s] be a type and a lesson for us. But if
[1343.8s] you deny the lesson then surely you
[1345.7s] cannot be taught by something that you
[1347.2s] think is a fable or mystical. It's like
[1350.1s] trying to say that you want to preach
[1351.4s] the gospel of Jesus, but then you
[1353.0s] believe that Jesus is a mythical or a
[1355.4s] legendary uh being. It is because you
[1358.0s] believe that Jesus was a real person
[1359.5s] that we're able to have faith in that
[1361.5s] story and in that message. It's the same
[1363.5s] way that today even codified in our
[1365.8s] science books. The idea of the flood is
[1368.0s] considered nonsense. You know that the
[1370.0s] world instead is full of you know like
[1373.0s] much rising and falling you know like um
[1375.6s] uh ice ages and things of that nature.
[1378.1s] various stages of of of perpetration of
[1381.0s] life and destruction doubt the messages
[1383.1s] we have in the word of God unfortunately
[1385.2s] yeah but Noah did not c his preaching
[1387.5s] for 120 years you know some of you may
[1389.9s] have preached and you're saying oh but I
[1391.7s] have been doing this they just don't
[1393.0s] listen I've given them up to their own
[1395.4s] lusts and desires but our metric of
[1398.6s] success is not how many people have come
[1401.0s] in and accepted your message in fact in
[1404.1s] Isaiah Isaiah says who will believe our
[1406.2s] report who shall We leave our report and
[1409.0s] we know they will not hear but we will
[1411.7s] not cease to preach. Why? It is the
[1413.5s] command of our Lord. It is the command
[1416.2s] of our Lord. My brother, I don't know if
[1417.7s] you you please just add up. Yeah, I
[1420.2s] think there's a comment you made about
[1421.7s] uh false science. Well, I'd like to
[1424.3s] perhaps maybe differ with you a bit in
[1426.6s] that it is it wasn't necessarily false
[1428.6s] science to them. It was evidence-based
[1430.0s] science because what Noah was saying was
[1432.4s] absurd. It was scientific. It was
[1434.9s] unconventional at that time that rain
[1436.6s] would come from the from the clouds. It
[1439.2s] had hitherto for not been an occurrence
[1442.1s] never been had. And so by by by virtue
[1445.7s] of even random control trials and
[1448.0s] systemic evidence by by the evidences of
[1450.6s] science, Noah was a certified madman.
[1453.8s] But nonetheless, I think this is where
[1456.3s] now we are called to embrace things by
[1459.4s] faith to enter into the realm of faith
[1461.7s] where God can speak those things which
[1465.0s] are aren't as those things which are.
[1467.0s] You know, as we as we're told, faith is
[1468.8s] the evidence of things hoped for. You
[1471.0s] know, uh the substance of things hoped
[1472.9s] for, the evidence of things not seen.
[1474.6s] And so, um Noah was moving by faith. and
[1478.4s] all who are to be saved in these last
[1481.6s] days must to a certain extent move by
[1483.8s] faith because today science can come up
[1486.6s] with all manner of things. I'm not
[1488.2s] saying that the faith is not scientific
[1489.9s] per se, but more often than not, what uh
[1493.6s] human being might human beings may may
[1496.1s] sit together in uh in in conferences and
[1498.6s] in congresses and and pass as science
[1501.3s] more often than not may be in direct
[1503.4s] contravention of what uh of of of what
[1507.3s] God can do. And I'd like to believe that
[1509.4s] um I think science as we know it is the
[1512.6s] outworking of the laws of God. You know
[1515.4s] what God understanding creation? Yes.
[1517.5s] Understanding of creation. And I think
[1519.1s] God is not limited. God can change
[1520.7s] things. He can do he can do wondrous
[1522.5s] things. And so if my dear viewer, you're
[1525.2s] simply uh being led uh to disbelieve God
[1529.9s] like the men and women during the days
[1532.0s] of Noah, I'm sure Noah may have had
[1534.6s] wonderful points. But on this one point,
[1536.8s] many would have said this is a point of
[1539.4s] lunacy and many would have turned away
[1541.4s] because of the science back in the day
[1543.6s] did not support that. Then we today many
[1546.4s] are equally falling into that trap as
[1548.6s] those men and women back in the days of
[1550.7s] Noah. It's simply for us to understand
[1553.3s] that nature and our world as we know it
[1555.7s] are the outworking of God's laws and
[1558.0s] God's power. And God himself can change
[1560.6s] things in an in and accordance with his
[1563.7s] plans and with his desires here on
[1565.7s] earth. But ultimately uh I think another
[1568.5s] point that um was there in that day
[1571.4s] during the the wrath of the lamb is that
[1574.2s] when God delays it does not mean uh when
[1577.1s] a prophecy delays or when something
[1579.2s] doesn't happen uh in our generation or
[1581.5s] in our father's generation does not mean
[1583.1s] that that thing is not true that it's
[1585.1s] not going to happen. And so sometimes
[1589.0s] uh let's not interpret the delays of God
[1592.1s] as as as as um as a mis uh misreading of
[1596.4s] a prophecy or as um as as it not being
[1599.4s] true. Thank you. Um one more thing just
[1602.0s] to confirm that what you're saying about
[1603.6s] the rain is actually biblical. Genesis
[1605.4s] chapter 5 chapter 2 verse 5 and 6 it
[1608.2s] says that there was no rain upon the
[1609.6s] earth before before that time of the
[1611.7s] flood. Rather there was a kind of myster
[1613.5s] and again right now that must sound
[1615.4s] absurd to the present science but that
[1617.8s] was at that time that was the common
[1620.1s] knowledge common understanding it's just
[1621.8s] like that how that's how things what
[1623.6s] wasn't true to us is what is normal you
[1626.1s] know none of us can think that the
[1627.7s] ground was earth the the ground was
[1629.5s] watered from beneath but in the days of
[1632.1s] Noah that was science so that my point
[1635.0s] is science is literally in the palms of
[1638.2s] god he can change he can we can if god
[1641.0s] if god wills we can have negative
[1642.7s] gravity. All of us can float and and
[1644.9s] survive there. And so I think for us to
[1647.5s] bind ourselves simply to science and and
[1649.9s] and and uh to to the to the rejecting of
[1652.8s] God, then we run a risk of being like
[1656.2s] the antidolivians, those who lived in
[1658.0s] the days of Noah. Amen. Amen. Um and I
[1662.6s] want to uh just come back and ask um
[1665.5s] this question. You know when I grew up
[1667.4s] uh as uh in in within the Catholic
[1670.3s] church, we were taught how God will deal
[1673.4s] with uh the wicked and we were told he
[1676.3s] will put us in a furnace for fire and we
[1678.2s] will burn for a long time. Actually I
[1680.4s] also understood that um there are souls
[1682.9s] in purgatory who are burning and we can
[1685.1s] pray for them and they will come out of
[1687.4s] purgatory. How does God deal with the
[1689.8s] wicked? How does God destroy the wicked?
[1693.3s] I just want to start from there.
[1695.8s] Oh yeah. So I would say quickly um uh
[1699.3s] before allow my brother to say
[1700.6s] something, I just say the book of Jude
[1702.3s] tells us um the book of second Peter
[1704.8s] tell us that the judgment of of the
[1707.8s] wicked is like the judgment in Sodom and
[1709.7s] Gomorrah which was like one and it's
[1711.5s] it's that God destroyed them with fire
[1713.9s] and destroyed them utterly and
[1715.5s] annihilated them. It's the same thing
[1717.1s] that's going to happen um to the wicked
[1720.0s] utter and total annihilation. You know
[1722.6s] the question someone would ask how will
[1725.1s] God deal with the wicked? How will God
[1727.9s] how does God deal with the wicked? We've
[1730.2s] had many ideas of hellfire but what is
[1734.1s] what does the Bible teach about
[1735.9s] hellfire? Uh it's interesting. I think
[1738.5s] also sometimes we we ought to understand
[1741.4s] when Genesis and when in the creation
[1743.4s] story when God says that he made us in
[1745.0s] his image and likeness to a certain
[1747.0s] extent um up to a particular extent I
[1749.8s] think um it even refers to the way we we
[1754.5s] we reason because if you think about it
[1758.1s] like how petty can God be if I use that
[1761.9s] word or how how how vindictive how how
[1767.5s] uh what type of overlord is he to punish
[1771.3s] to such such an extent that for a sin
[1775.0s] that perhaps maybe for a life of sin
[1778.2s] let's say even lived to 80 years of pure
[1781.6s] and uh and and and and diluted sinning
[1784.6s] then you burn for
[1786.6s] eternity by the by the rules of law as
[1790.5s] we know them by our own rational by our
[1792.6s] own um fible minds as we are right now
[1797.0s] we we we believe in justice being uh
[1801.1s] equal to the crime you know and uh and
[1803.5s] and so I don't believe uh even just by
[1807.1s] reasoning by by by way of reasoning by
[1809.6s] by itself it paints a tyrannical god a
[1813.1s] god who um who who who wants to who
[1816.3s] wants absolute absolute uh obedience
[1819.7s] which is which is true but at the threat
[1822.4s] of what of eternal damnation eternal
[1825.7s] rather eternal suffering and and
[1828.1s] difficulties. But I would like us to
[1829.8s] consider in trying to understand exactly
[1834.1s] uh now as we turn to scripture exactly
[1836.6s] what what exactly u is this uh that's
[1840.4s] going on you know uh and in the Bible
[1842.6s] itself it says about about uh about the
[1846.8s] devil himself in the book of Ezekiel
[1849.2s] chapter 28 about the destruction of he
[1851.9s] who is I would say even when Christ is
[1855.1s] the father of the father of evil you
[1856.3s] know he's he he's intrinsically If if if
[1858.9s] if evil if sin was to be embodied, it
[1861.3s] would be the it would be in the devil.
[1862.7s] And this is what is written about the
[1864.9s] end of the devil in the book of Ezekiel
[1867.7s] chapter 28. And let me just begin from
[1870.4s] verse 17. The Bible sets the scene and
[1872.7s] says, "This mighty angel uh who fell."
[1875.7s] It says, "Thy heart was lifted up
[1877.3s] because of your beauty. You have
[1879.4s] corrupted your wisdom by reason of your
[1881.3s] brightness. I will cast thee to the
[1883.4s] ground. I will lay thee before kings
[1885.4s] that they may behold thee." It talks
[1887.4s] about the devil being falling down, you
[1889.6s] know, being punished. Then what else
[1891.0s] does it say? It says in verse 18, "Thou
[1893.6s] hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the
[1895.5s] multitude of thine iniquities, by the
[1897.3s] iniquity of thy traffic. Therefore will
[1899.2s] I bring a fire from the midst of thee."
[1901.8s] Then it continues and says, "It shall
[1903.7s] devour thee, and I will bring thee to
[1905.8s] what? I will bring thee to ashes upon
[1908.9s] the earth in the sight of all them that
[1911.7s] behold thee." To ashes to ashes. He'll
[1914.1s] be brought to ashes. He doesn't say
[1915.9s] total destruction. Yes. Total
[1917.8s] destruction, you know, um as opposed to
[1921.0s] um to uh endless and endless continuous
[1926.0s] suffering because that is indeed the
[1927.9s] wages of sin is death, not eternal
[1930.8s] suffering, not eternal life, but in
[1933.4s] pain. The wages of sin is death. Even
[1936.1s] the devil himself will be turned to
[1937.7s] ashes. And and and in Malachi chapter 4,
[1941.7s] speaking again of the destruction of the
[1943.6s] wicked, the Bible writes and says, "For
[1946.0s] behold, the day cometh that shall burn
[1948.6s] as an oven, and all the proud, yeah, and
[1951.8s] all that do wickedly shall be stable,
[1955.9s] and the day that cometh shall burn them
[1958.0s] up, say the Lord of hosts, that it shall
[1960.1s] leave them neither root nor branch. But
[1964.4s] unto you that fear my name shall be the
[1967.1s] son shall the son of righteousness arise
[1969.5s] with healing in his wings. Verse three
[1971.4s] continues on to say and you shall tread
[1973.9s] down the wicked for they shall be ashes
[1977.4s] under the souls of your feet in the day
[1980.1s] that I shall do this say the Lord of
[1982.4s] hosts. And you know to to think that
[1985.0s] this this has been recorded in the word
[1987.7s] of God continually how God is going to
[1990.3s] deal with the wicked. And just so that
[1992.5s] you do not fail to understand what it
[1994.7s] is. God says I am going to give you an
[1997.3s] example of how this shall be done. In
[2000.5s] the book of second Peter chapter 2 um
[2004.2s] verse 4 to verse uh 11 I will read from
[2007.8s] verse um um five. It says, "If he did
[2010.7s] not spare the ancient world when he
[2013.4s] brought the flood and on its ungodly
[2016.4s] people, but protected Noah, a preacher
[2019.4s] of righteousness and seven others, if he
[2022.3s] condemned the cities of Sodom and
[2024.7s] Gomorrah, by burning them to ashes,
[2028.0s] similar to the destruction of the
[2029.7s] wicked, and made them an example of what
[2034.0s] is going to happen to the ungodly, the
[2037.0s] story of Sodom and Gomorrah is given to
[2040.2s] us to show us the example of how God is
[2043.8s] going to end the destruction of the
[2046.0s] wicked. Not the ideas that oh God will
[2048.2s] start burning someone one finger, two
[2050.8s] fingers, one foot until they are
[2052.7s] completely done. He's going to burn them
[2055.0s] at once. The way he burnt Sodom and
[2057.8s] Gomorrah at once. But what was the scene
[2061.1s] of Sodom? Sodom and Gomorrah. What led
[2063.8s] to their destruction? What led to the
[2065.7s] destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah? Um
[2068.6s] maybe my brother you can tell us this.
[2071.4s] Indeed uh the Bible records the book of
[2073.2s] Ezekiel um chapter 16. Let me find it.
[2077.5s] Ezekiel chapter 16 records uh the sins
[2080.2s] of Sodom and Gomorrah to up to a
[2082.7s] particular extent. And it begins um
[2085.8s] Ezekiel chapter 16 uh from verse 41. Um
[2090.4s] and the Bible records and says um and
[2093.8s] they it continues and says I will cause
[2097.1s] thee to cease from playing the hallot
[2099.4s] and thou shalt also give no higher
[2101.9s] anymore. It tells us that Israel had
[2104.2s] been playing what the Israel had been
[2107.0s] had been uh playing a lot. Verse 47 says
[2110.2s] h in verse 47 it says yet hast thou not
[2113.1s] walked after their ways nor done after
[2114.8s] their abominations but as if as if that
[2119.0s] were a very little thing thou was
[2121.0s] corrupted more than they in all thy ways
[2124.9s] that that Israel even perfected iniquity
[2128.1s] anded and exceeded the bounds. And then
[2131.0s] in verse 49 it says, "Behold, this was
[2133.8s] the iniquity of thy sister Sodom. Pride,
[2138.4s] fullness of bread, and abundance of
[2140.4s] idleness was in her and in her
[2142.4s] daughters. Neither did she strengthen
[2144.2s] the hand of the poor and the needy." The
[2147.4s] gospel, as Christ had had summarized it
[2151.5s] to us, the gospel is about being there
[2154.4s] for those who are less fortunate in
[2156.0s] society. That is true Christianity. It
[2158.8s] is about extending your hand to the poor
[2161.4s] and to the need. In fact uh when Christ
[2163.6s] is now speaking in the gospel context um
[2166.3s] in the new testament he says in this in
[2168.6s] the last days he would come and many
[2171.0s] would stand before him and say why are
[2173.0s] we why have we been rejected and then
[2175.0s] Christ would say I was hungry and you
[2176.8s] never fed me. I was in prison and you
[2179.0s] never visited me. I was in hospital and
[2181.1s] you never came around to say an
[2182.6s] encouraging word. Yes. Yes. And so true
[2185.4s] gospel is to take care of widows and
[2187.5s] orphans and those who are needy in
[2189.0s] society as opposed to self-reflection
[2192.3s] and and and and and and
[2195.6s] uh and focusing on yourself only. And
[2198.2s] this was the problem uh that Sodom had.
[2200.7s] They had food. They were proud and they
[2203.3s] had fullness of bread. There's not
[2205.0s] there's there's not an abundance of
[2207.2s] idols. There's nothing there's no um
[2211.5s] there's no mixture that can combust and
[2215.8s] result in wickedness than somebody who
[2218.1s] is idle and full at the same time. You
[2220.2s] know, you know when you're hungry, you
[2221.5s] can't be idle. You start looking for
[2223.0s] something. But suddenly somebody has a
[2225.4s] lot of a lot of money and a lot of time
[2227.8s] to waste and the result is usually an
[2230.5s] explosion of iniquity. Of iniquity.
[2233.3s] Thank you very much. Um let me just and
[2235.8s] you know sometimes we see it like the
[2238.4s] children of Israel they must have been
[2239.9s] shocked when Ezekiel wrote this and say
[2241.8s] you are even worse than Sodom and
[2243.6s] Gomorrah. Israel must have sat and
[2245.4s] thought of course we are better than
[2246.8s] them. Of course they were destroyed
[2249.4s] because of their sin. We cannot even
[2251.4s] exceed their sin. But the Bible said
[2253.6s] they exceeded their sin. Paul also gives
[2256.9s] us a list of similar sins being
[2259.0s] committed when he's writing in the book
[2260.9s] of Romans. And yet when he's talking
[2263.1s] about the Gentiles in the context of the
[2265.4s] Roman Empire that time and then tells
[2267.8s] the Jews, you are not very different
[2269.8s] from these people. You're not very
[2271.7s] different. Tell us about the context.
[2273.5s] What was happening in the Roman Empire?
[2275.1s] What kind of gross sins? And what was
[2277.0s] Paul telling them? So what Paul was
[2279.4s] telling them was that uh h among the
[2282.7s] Gentiles having lost um or having
[2286.2s] rejected what was obvious in nature that
[2289.0s] God is the creator. They embraced
[2291.0s] instead the worship of creeping things
[2293.1s] and idols and the like worshiped the
[2294.9s] creature rather rather than the creator.
[2296.9s] And as a result what happened? We are
[2298.8s] told in the book of Romans chapter one
[2301.0s] that as a result of that there was like
[2303.0s] a degradation. First of all, the
[2305.2s] degradation um uh we are told professing
[2308.2s] themselves to the wise, they be they
[2309.9s] became fools. Romans chapter 1:22 and
[2312.8s] they turned the glory of God into uh h
[2316.2s] basically the worshiing of idols and the
[2318.0s] like. And then immediately afterwards
[2320.6s] they began to engage in sexual vice. We
[2323.7s] are told that God gave them up to their
[2325.9s] lust and their own uncleanness. And
[2328.5s] verse 26, uh, for for for this cause God
[2331.4s] gave them up into vile affection. Even
[2333.5s] their women did change the natural use
[2335.8s] into that which is against nature. Verse
[2337.8s] 27, likewise also men leaving the
[2341.4s] natural use of the woman, banned in
[2343.6s] their last, one towards another, men
[2346.2s] with men, working that which is unsemly,
[2349.0s] and receiving in themselves the
[2351.0s] recompense of the error which was made.
[2353.7s] Actually, that's the same thing we find
[2355.2s] in the book of Ezekiel. Because in
[2357.1s] Ezekiel chapter 49 we are told that the
[2359.4s] sin of of of Sodom and Gomorrah began
[2361.4s] with what? Pride, fullness of bread,
[2363.4s] abundance of idleness and failure to
[2365.9s] care for those who are in need. And then
[2367.4s] we are told in verse 50 and and and then
[2370.5s] where is it? Verse 50, and they were
[2372.6s] haughty and committed abomination. And
[2375.7s] the result what we find in Genesis
[2377.4s] chapter 19 and 20 that um homosexuality
[2381.3s] for instance and sexual deviency. Yes,
[2383.8s] that's how you get that sort of it was
[2385.4s] the product of that kind of culture that
[2388.5s] has effaced God completely focusing on
[2391.0s] the flesh and the result is always that
[2393.1s] the flesh will consume and and
[2395.3s] ultimately corrupt and destroy and
[2397.2s] that's precisely what happened in Sodom
[2398.6s] and Gomorrah what happened in Rome in
[2400.7s] fact there is um there's a a a doctor
[2404.2s] who actually went through various
[2405.7s] empires and you could see a cycle of all
[2407.8s] empires that empires when they're young
[2409.7s] they have like very vibrant and the like
[2411.8s] they focus on on natural laws and and
[2414.2s] and and obedience to the natural laws
[2416.7s] and things like that, laws in family and
[2418.5s] society and things. But then as they
[2420.2s] progress they become very complacent and
[2423.2s] as they become complacent what happens?
[2424.8s] They become corrupt and then suddenly
[2426.6s] those sexual vices enter into almost all
[2428.8s] the cultures and as a result the family
[2430.8s] breaks down and the society weakens and
[2432.8s] collapses and the and and and he pointed
[2435.4s] out that it is a cycle that happens
[2437.0s] throughout history. It's a it's quite
[2439.0s] unfortunate and we know that in the last
[2441.1s] days the whole world shall be of a
[2443.2s] similar and quite unfortunate nature
[2445.0s] because we are told that of um of the
[2447.6s] end of the world that just as um uh
[2451.0s] Noah's time was a type also Sodom and
[2453.6s] Gomorra was another type of what will
[2455.4s] happen just before Jesus Christ returns.
[2458.4s] You know it is very sad to imagine that
[2461.0s] the sins that are things that Paul will
[2464.1s] write and say these sins should not even
[2466.5s] be heard among you. But he says these
[2469.2s] things are being recorded in among you
[2472.6s] which you judge Sodom and Gomera so
[2475.1s] harshly but the Bible writes and says
[2477.1s] that we are just like them. You know
[2478.6s] when Paul is writing during the time uh
[2480.9s] to uh the the book of Romans, they're
[2483.4s] living during the time of the Roman
[2485.0s] Empire when one emperor is uh has killed
[2489.1s] so many people just to get into power
[2491.6s] when their mothers were probably um
[2493.9s] committing incest with their sons when
[2496.6s] their children were turning against each
[2498.6s] other. It was such a vile empire during
[2501.8s] the time when Paul is writing their
[2503.4s] sins, calling them malicious, murder,
[2506.2s] murderers, people full of envys and
[2508.7s] jealousies. And yet he says, "But you
[2511.6s] are just like them. You are just like
[2513.7s] them." It must have shocked the Jews.
[2515.8s] Yet it is an awakening call to every
[2518.6s] Christian that we is we are indeed prone
[2521.4s] to those sins as well because we are of
[2523.9s] like flesh. You know Christ writes and
[2526.2s] says in the book of Markapter 6 11 that
[2529.4s] it will be more tolerable for Sodom and
[2531.9s] Gomorrah on that day than for us. Why?
[2534.9s] We have committed the same sins that
[2536.9s] Sodom and Gomorrah committed. And yet we
[2539.9s] have had more light than Sodom and
[2542.7s] Gomorrah did. It is indeed uh it causes
[2546.6s] us to pause and reflect and pray for
[2549.2s] ourselves indeed lest we fall. These
[2551.9s] things have been written for our
[2554.0s] examples. But the question is before God
[2557.9s] destroys the wicked, before God comes
[2560.9s] and destroys the wicked the way he did
[2562.9s] Sodom and Gomorrah, will he have a
[2566.2s] review? What kind of judge will God be?
[2569.8s] Indeed, um, the judge of all the earth.
[2573.2s] The story is recorded in the book of
[2575.4s] Genesis 18 from verse
[2578.0s] 17-32. add uh leave it to the reader to
[2581.7s] uh to the listener also to hopefully
[2584.2s] you're following with your own Bible and
[2586.3s] you take time and consider that story.
[2588.0s] It's a story of um what happens before
[2591.1s] Sodom and Gomorrah is destroyed and the
[2593.4s] story begins and he tells us that one
[2595.5s] day uh Abraham it begins with Abraham.
[2598.6s] Abraham is just uh seated and then
[2600.8s] suddenly he he sees some guests and he
[2603.7s] he invites them in into his home. Bible
[2606.8s] records uh from verse 17 um uh once he
[2611.2s] has uh they've come and uh and and
[2613.8s] they've done so many things including
[2615.7s] prophesying that Sarah will get a child.
[2617.8s] In verse 16 the Bible records these
[2619.9s] there were three men and as they were
[2621.8s] arising they looked towards Sodom and uh
[2625.3s] Abraham went with them to bring them on
[2628.0s] the way. So many lessons there for us.
[2630.6s] Even Abraham being a very wonderful host
[2632.5s] he just saw three strangers and he
[2633.7s] invited them to his home. Later on in
[2635.4s] the gospels we are told let us be good
[2637.4s] to strangers you know because some
[2639.6s] angels have entertained have entertained
[2641.6s] angels and beyond beyond um entertaining
[2644.4s] them you see what Abraham does he walks
[2648.2s] them out he he takes he's sort of like
[2650.0s] seeing them
[2651.3s] off he he he wants to to to really make
[2654.4s] their journey to to to be so convenient
[2657.8s] to them and to be of help as much as
[2659.8s] possible and eventually as they're
[2661.4s] walking towards Sodom eventually what
[2663.8s] happens the Bible records In verse 17,
[2665.8s] and the Lord said, shall I hide from
[2667.9s] Abraham that thing which I do? It's a
[2671.0s] question. In Amos 3 and:7, we are told,
[2674.2s] surely the Lord does nothing unless he
[2677.1s] reveals his secret to his servants, the
[2679.8s] prophets. Sometimes
[2682.6s] um and that's the beauty of the gospel
[2684.4s] also to a certain extent. And as much as
[2685.9s] we know that God that God is powerful
[2687.9s] and he and he can do so many things, he
[2690.1s] has executive power, he sort of subjects
[2692.7s] himself to a modest operandi. And God
[2695.6s] has subjected himself to certain things.
[2698.0s] Uh he's got a way of of of of of
[2700.8s] of operating a way in which he does his
[2703.9s] his things. And one of the things that
[2706.1s] he does is he will not do anything
[2708.4s] without informing
[2710.5s] um his people here on earth. He will not
[2712.5s] do anything here on earth anything um
[2715.4s] what whatsoever without uh especially if
[2718.7s] it's something that is significant
[2720.2s] without speaking and telling it to
[2722.4s] somebody uh whom he is close with here
[2725.0s] on earth the secret of the Lord is
[2727.1s] indeed with those that fear him the book
[2729.6s] of Psalms continue indeed and so God
[2732.1s] tells uh says he will not go and do this
[2734.6s] thing and then in verse 18 it says
[2737.3s] seeing that Abraham shall surely become
[2739.0s] a great and mighty nation and all the
[2740.7s] nations of the earth shall be blessed in
[2742.8s] him. And then he continues and says in
[2746.1s] verse 20, "And the Lord said, because of
[2748.1s] the cry of Sodom, because the cry of
[2750.3s] Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because
[2753.2s] their sin is very grievious." That's
[2756.4s] interesting. What does it mean that the
[2758.8s] cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great?
[2761.0s] Maybe you can indulge me as panelists.
[2763.4s] Maybe maybe before we we we go into um
[2767.5s] the scene of Sodom and Gomorrah, I just
[2770.3s] want us to see the interaction between
[2772.6s] Abraham and the Lord and um Abraham
[2776.6s] doing the work of questioning God. I I
[2780.2s] maybe if you can just read uh for us
[2782.6s] that verse in verse 25 and talk a bit
[2785.4s] more about that. Okay. Yeah. So um in
[2788.7s] essence God is God God tells um Abraham
[2792.5s] that he's going to destroy Sodom and
[2794.1s] Gomorrah because the cry of Sodom and
[2797.0s] Gomorrah was great and their sin was
[2798.7s] grievous. And then he continues and
[2800.0s] tells them um be before he does that God
[2803.9s] says I will go down now and see whether
[2806.6s] they have done altogether according to
[2808.6s] the cry of it which is come unto me. If
[2811.9s] not I will know. You see God himself
[2814.2s] taking an initiative and going to do
[2816.7s] what is what we what I would call
[2819.0s] investigation. Some would call it this
[2821.0s] is the first type of investigative
[2824.1s] judgment. You know, God comes down
[2826.0s] himself and he looks and he says, "Okay,
[2829.0s] there's a there's been a there's been
[2830.6s] complaints and and cries. Now he's he's
[2832.7s] coming himself and he's going to do a
[2834.2s] work." And then he allows the men to go
[2837.3s] uh before him. And then in verse 23, now
[2839.8s] it is now God and Abraham left together.
[2842.5s] And then Abraham interacts with God in
[2845.6s] that in that it tells us the way the
[2848.6s] humility of God also you know as a ruler
[2851.2s] as a creator to really have a
[2854.1s] conversation with a being that he that
[2856.5s] he has created. It's the way we interact
[2858.3s] with AI you know sometimes you know and
[2861.0s] uh it's interesting it's interesting
[2862.8s] almost um almost mirroring that
[2865.0s] interaction are we really kind uh to the
[2868.1s] to the to the things that we have
[2869.2s] produced or we threaten them you know
[2871.4s] and and and and we say do what you must
[2873.8s] do what I what I have said and so
[2875.8s] eventually Abraham now is able to ask
[2878.4s] God this question will thou also destroy
[2881.7s] the righteous with the wicked that's
[2883.4s] interest that's an interesting question
[2885.0s] almost questioning the character of God.
[2888.5s] What type of person are you? Are you
[2890.1s] just going to You've had a cry. Yes.
[2892.4s] Okay. Some something bad is happening
[2894.2s] there. People are complaining. A lot of
[2896.2s] evil has has been done there. People
[2898.3s] have been taken advantage of and uh
[2900.6s] etc., etc. But surely there must be some
[2904.0s] good people there. Will you destroy the
[2906.5s] righteous with the wicked? Then in verse
[2908.2s] 24, he says, "Per adventure there may
[2910.1s] there are 50 righteous people within
[2911.4s] that city. Will thou destroy and not
[2914.2s] spare the place for 50 righteous people
[2916.2s] there? And then what does God
[2918.8s] say that be far from thee to do after
[2921.8s] this manner to slay the righteous with
[2923.3s] the wicked? This is this is Abraham
[2925.4s] telling God I have understood you. I'm
[2926.9s] not questioning your character. I know
[2928.6s] you cannot destroy the righteous with
[2930.1s] the wicked. I it must be far from you,
[2932.8s] you know. And then he's uh shall not the
[2937.2s] judge of all the earth do right. Do
[2939.6s] right. That's a powerful uh statement, a
[2942.5s] statement and also a question. And then
[2944.6s] what does God say? God says, "If I find
[2946.9s] in Sodom 50 righteous within the city,
[2950.3s] then I will spare all the place for
[2952.6s] their sex." That the all of Sodom and
[2954.8s] Gomorrah would have been spared if 50
[2957.0s] righteous people were found. Of the five
[2959.1s] cities, Sodom, Gomorrah, Adma, and
[2961.9s] Bella. So five cities. So only 10 per 10
[2965.0s] per city. If only 50 people were found.
[2968.3s] But then realize Abraham now thinks and
[2971.0s] wonders, hey, perhaps 50 is a high
[2972.7s] number. But begs the question, is a
[2975.5s] 144,000 a literal or a figurative
[2978.2s] number? If 50 is difficult to find in
[2980.4s] this time, with the Lord find 144 in the
[2983.4s] whole world who knows towards the end of
[2985.8s] the times. And he goes down until he
[2988.0s] gets to how many people? 10. He he
[2990.0s] negotiates. And the Bible continues in
[2991.7s] verse 28. He goes up to way and he says
[2995.2s] perhaps they lack five of the 50. will
[2998.0s] you destroy for lack of five? And you
[3000.5s] find 45. He continues and says, I will
[3003.0s] not do it for 40's sake. And he
[3005.1s] continues and continues. In verse 31, it
[3007.8s] says, and he said, behold now I have
[3009.3s] taken upon me to speak unto the Lord by
[3011.4s] adventure. There'll be 20 who will be
[3013.4s] found there. And the Lord said uh if he
[3016.7s] finds 10, eventually goes all the way to
[3019.1s] 10. And he said, I will not destroy it
[3020.8s] for 10 sec.
[3023.4s] That's interesting. And the Lord went
[3025.3s] his way as soon as he had left communing
[3028.4s] with Abraham and Abraham returned unto
[3031.0s] his place. Amen. Amen. You know, David
[3034.6s] writes and says in the book of Psalms
[3036.5s] that you know, God forgive me and I want
[3039.4s] I want it to the record to be taken of
[3042.0s] me so that even when you are judged, you
[3044.3s] may be found right. That the judgment
[3046.6s] here is not just for Sodom for God to go
[3049.6s] and judge Sodom. But you can see
[3052.0s] Abraham, one of the righteous is also
[3054.9s] there examining the character of God.
[3057.8s] God actually calls us to examine his
[3060.2s] character. Come and see whether what I
[3062.4s] do is righteous. Come and and and
[3064.6s] conclude whether that which I do is
[3066.2s] righteous or is wicked. And he welcomes
[3068.8s] people. Come and reason with me and
[3070.9s] judge for yourself. And and and I want
[3073.4s] us to go um into that line of thought.
[3075.8s] As God is being judged and as the saints
[3078.9s] are being judged, how is God going to
[3082.1s] perform the investigative judgment in
[3084.6s] these last days as he's destroying
[3087.8s] bringing the destruction of the kingdoms
[3089.7s] of this earth and establishing his
[3091.7s] kingdom? Thank you. I I think people
[3094.5s] may cringe when they hear as God is
[3097.3s] being judged, but what you mean more is
[3099.3s] that God has all understanding, all
[3101.9s] knowledge, all truth. He knows all
[3103.8s] things. He knows the end from the
[3105.5s] beginning. So even in the case of Sodom
[3107.7s] and Gomorrah, he knew exactly the
[3109.8s] number. He knew that Lot alone was was
[3112.9s] jud was was was righteous. But he came
[3115.2s] anyway so that his judgment would be
[3117.9s] transparent. You know, in this country
[3120.0s] and I don't know this world in general,
[3121.7s] we ask ourselves, do we have this level
[3123.5s] of transparency um of judgment that God
[3126.4s] himself so freely manifests? And it's
[3129.0s] the same thing he saw with Adam and Eve.
[3130.9s] He came and asked, where are you? He
[3133.1s] came to Cain and asked the question
[3135.0s] where is Abel your brother? Not because
[3137.0s] he didn't know. Um when they were
[3139.5s] building the tower of Babel he came down
[3141.8s] and says I want to come down and see
[3143.8s] what exactly they are doing. So so it is
[3146.3s] actually God's emo to engage in a work
[3148.5s] of investigative judgment. That that is
[3150.9s] normal that God doing a work of
[3153.6s] investigative judgment is actually the
[3155.3s] normal thing that he always does all the
[3157.0s] time. Now in the book of Daniel we are
[3159.4s] given um many specifics and I'll very
[3162.0s] briefly go through that. In the book of
[3163.4s] Daniel chapter 7 reading verse 9 we are
[3167.9s] given from verse 1 to 8 we are given a
[3170.1s] list of kingdoms of um a lion with
[3172.9s] eagle's wings. Um a bear with um with
[3176.1s] three ribs in its mouth. Um a leopard
[3178.5s] with four heads and a nondescript beast
[3181.0s] with um with 10 horns. And then a little
[3183.5s] horn that grows up and becomes great.
[3186.2s] And then that little horn persecutes
[3187.8s] God's people. And then as the little
[3189.7s] horn is persecuting God's people, in
[3191.7s] verse 9, we are told that there is
[3193.8s] actually a work of judgment that begins.
[3196.1s] I beheld to the thrones, Daniel 7:9,
[3199.0s] were cast down and the ancient of days
[3200.9s] did sit. Verse 10, we are told um that
[3203.4s] there were thousands that came and there
[3205.1s] were books that were opened. It was
[3206.6s] actually a work of judgment. And then in
[3208.9s] verse 13 and 14, we are told also that
[3211.2s] the son of man came to the ancient of
[3213.2s] days and there was given to him. So
[3215.2s] basically the end of the judgment is
[3216.9s] determined that that kingdom all those
[3219.6s] kingdoms were judged to have been un
[3222.5s] unworthy of of of of even that capacity
[3225.7s] of dominion and the and and and their
[3227.9s] right of of of dominion was taken from
[3229.9s] them and given to the lamb and given to
[3232.8s] the the the people of the lamb, the
[3234.8s] saints of the lamp. That work um we are
[3238.2s] told happens around the time of the
[3240.1s] little horn. So we know at least the
[3241.8s] little horn um rules um obviously after
[3245.4s] the time of Jesus Christ the little horn
[3247.2s] rules throughout the middle ages and
[3249.8s] then during its the time of its reign
[3253.1s] that is when this work of investigation
[3255.4s] begins. Um reading in verse 26 and verse
[3258.3s] 27 we are told that the judgment shall
[3260.4s] sit and they shall take away the
[3262.0s] dominium of the little horn and consume
[3264.3s] to destroy it unto the end. um and the
[3267.4s] kingdom and the dominion and the
[3268.6s] greatness of the kingdom under the whole
[3270.2s] heaven shall be given to the saints and
[3272.6s] the people. So we can see that
[3274.2s] interesting contrast on the earth we
[3276.2s] have nations roving fighting against
[3278.0s] each other um even attacking God's
[3280.6s] people but in heaven that work is
[3282.8s] witnessed it is reviewed and their their
[3286.3s] works and the works of all the wicked of
[3288.0s] the earth are found to be unjust and in
[3290.6s] the very end the the judgment is is
[3293.8s] ended and the kingdom and dominion are
[3296.2s] given to go h to the saints to God's
[3299.1s] people and you know it's very
[3301.6s] interesting someone would here the
[3303.3s] judgment is coming and they will
[3305.2s] probably tremble and shake. But there's
[3307.8s] one very comforting um verse in Daniel
[3310.8s] chapter um in Daniel chapter 7 verse 22
[3314.6s] that says that this judgment is made in
[3318.6s] favor of the saints the most high. It is
[3322.3s] made in your favor. We should actually
[3324.5s] be excited about the judgment
[3326.5s] eventually. Now the saints of God will
[3329.3s] be vindicated. We do not need to look at
[3331.4s] the judgment and fear. The grace of God
[3334.5s] today covers us because of Christ Jesus
[3337.6s] who sits in the judgment. The one who
[3340.2s] died for us. Bought I mean gave himself
[3343.4s] for us for a ransom. That man is the one
[3346.9s] who sits as judge of all the earth. And
[3350.2s] will the judge of all the earth do
[3351.9s] righteously? Indeed he will. He judgeth
[3355.7s] righteously. And he calls you and I to
[3359.1s] sit with him, examine him so that in
[3362.4s] that day he will be justified when he
[3365.3s] shall judge. He will be justified when
[3368.1s] he shall judge. We will conclude there
[3371.0s] and we'll continue again next Sabbath.
[3373.8s] Please join us um the same time on
[3376.7s] Sabbath, New Life 7th Day Adventist
[3379.0s] Church, Fifth Gong Avenue. My brother
[3381.5s] Raphael, kindly pray with us as we
[3383.4s] close. Let's believe and pray. Our kind
[3385.8s] and loving father and master what in
[3387.4s] heaven. We thank you and praise your
[3388.9s] name for being such a magnanimous ruler
[3391.8s] and such a loving God that you invite us
[3394.9s] to look at the books and to look at your
[3399.2s] working process to look at how you
[3401.5s] arrive to the decisions in which you
[3403.5s] have. Indeed, it is simply marvelous and
[3407.4s] such a great condensation on your part.
[3410.2s] To this end I pray dear Lord that we be
[3411.9s] found on the right side of the judgment.
[3415.0s] I pray may your grace uh be sufficient
[3417.6s] for us and I pray that your holy spirit
[3419.8s] together with our brother and our man's
[3422.2s] servant our lord and our savior Jesus
[3424.0s] Christ make intercession for us and help
[3426.6s] us to make it from here to the hereafter
[3429.2s] is our most humble prayer this evening
[3431.2s] and uh whatever time in which uh the
[3433.5s] viewers are viewing this in Jesus we
[3436.4s] pray and believe. Amen. Amen. Amen.