Title: Lesson 3 || Images From Marriage || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: Mln0aBvj1iY
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mln0aBvj1iY
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you so much for joining us today, brothers and sisters, to study the word of God with us. I am particularly excited about the lesson discussion that we are having today. Thank you for joining New Life 7th Day Adventist Church on Fifth Gong Avenue. I am joined here with uh a couple of my friends um whom I would like them to introduce themselves and then we will start this discussion together. Um maybe we can start our introduction from this side. My name is Enango Rafa. It's a pleasure to be with you. Amen. And today we are joined by my wonderful husband and I would like him to introduce himself as well. Thank you. Uh very apt because we're discussing marriage. Uh my name is Jafet Throno. Amen. and my name is Jess Rono. Today we are looking at images from marriage. As I mentioned that the book of revelation which is our focus this quarter is filled with many symbols, a lot of imagery, a lot of illusions which we will help you and as we study together actually help each other to unravel what's what are some of these symbols, what are some of these mysteries. And before we dive into images from marriage, I will ask uh my husband to pray with us. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity you've given us to discuss this topic of uh marriage. We ask that your holy spirit give us insight and understanding that our discussion may glorify your name and that all the hearers um all of our friends who are listening uh uh may be edified in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. All right. Our key text for this week comes from the book of Revelation chapter 19 verse9. Revelation 19:9. Brother Raphael, would you kindly read for us? Reading from the New King James Version, the Bible records and says, "Then he said to me, write, "Blessed are those who are called the marriage supper of the lamb." And he said to me, "These are the true sayings of God." Amen. It's interesting that Christ says that there's a marriage supper of the lamb. That there's a supper that is coming at the end of time. But he does not just say it is any kind of supper. It is a marriage supper that go because Christ uses um this imagery of marriage which we want to unravel today. I am particularly excited about it because I have not been married for so long and marriage has been a true blessing in my own life. But when he says the marriage supper of the lamb, I'm reminded I think it is last week we just had our holy communion and we were excited to partake of this holy communion together and we were so happy that we could commemorate the symbol of of what Christ has done for us by dying for us on the cross. And you know, one of the things that Christ said when he spoke to his disciples, he said, "I will never again partake of this until we meet together in heaven." This is that marriage supper of the lamb that is spoken of that Christ will never partake of that bread and wine until he reunites with us. And you know today marriage has truly been tarnished. The u people have a lot of um rates. I think they give you a lot of statistics when you want to consider marry like are you sure you want to do this because 50% or is it 60% a very high percentage of the marriages end up in divorce divorce yes and you'll hear a lot of stories about people who are very unhappy in their marriages but the Bible gives us this symbol of marriage not as something that is tarnished or something that is defiled but one that represents the intimate relationship between Christ and his church. I want us to just go to the book of Genesis chapter 2 verse 23-2. Let us just turn to the book of Genesis chapter 2 23-2 to illustrate this this intimate connection that God wants to have with his church. Would you kindly read for us? Thank you. Genesis chapter 2 verse 23-2. And I'm reading from King James. You may follow with me from your own translations. It says, "And Adam said, this is now born of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother and shall cleave unto his wife, and they too shall be one flesh. And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed." And you know in the same way that the Bible says that Adam and Eve were to become one flesh in marriage in that happy union the first union we see in the garden of Eden. So Christ says I want to become one with humanity. The Bible actually says that this is a mystery. Let us read from the book of Ephesians. Let us turn to the book of Ephesians chapter 5 verse 29-32. So Ephesians chapter 5 from verse 29-32 the Bible records and says for no man ever yet hated his own flesh but nourisheth and cherisheth it even as the Lord the church for we are members of his body of his flesh and of his bones. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother and shall be joined unto his wife and they too shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery but I speak concerning Christ and the church. Amen. It is called a great mystery. It is called a great mystery. But you know how the the passage start? It starts by saying that no man who loves the wife who ate his own flesh because they have become one. They have become one flesh. And Christ says the way the man is one flesh with the wife. So do I desire to be one flesh with the church. And he says, "The same way a man will not hate his own flesh is the same way I will not hate my own flesh." And the Bible is keen to call this a mystery. You know what other things the Bible calls a mystery? The Bible speaks of a few mysteries, but there's one min mystery that I particularly like. In the book of 1 Timothy 3:16, we are told that the con by common confession, grace is the mystery of what? Godliness. Great is the mystery of godliness. When Christ becomes man, when humanity and divinity becomes one. And therefore the same way Christ became I mean the same way a man and a woman becomes one to symbolize Christ and the church Christ wants to become one with you. Christ wants to have such an intimate relationship that the only way the closest way he could represent how intimate this relationship can be is by teaching us this relationship through marriage only through marriage. And you know today many marriages end up in divorce. Many marriages end up in divorce. Many marriages actually are not doing well. Many marriages are not doing well. But Christ wants us to be perfect. I just want to ask you, my husband, because you're here, sorry for putting you um in the spotlight, but some of the principles that we can apply in marriage, especially as symbolized um by uh by Christ, how Christ selflessly loves the church and honors the marriage union. Thank you. Uh I think uh as you said and as actually we will see much more clearly in this lesson uh the representation of Christ in the church uh uh uh is best reflected in that between husband and wife. And I see that the way Christ would interact with the church is the best way that spouses can relate to each other. the kind of patience that Christ has, the level of forgiveness that Christ has, the level of a strong desire to to to manifest great love and affection to do good works for for for the other party. That is precisely what we see in Christ and what I know we see uh and my wife and I would express in each other and what I believe is the bedrock for h the most wonderful and enabling and uplifting marriage experience. one that is full of love because love is expressed every single day. In fact, I was thinking that marriage is in a sense a kind of theater of love where each of the parties are both audience and actors. So you are both you are both one who receives and gives love not merely in words but even in action and and in that sense reflect truly that relationship that Christ would ideally have with the church. Amen. Amen. When we become part of the bride of Christ, thank you for sharing that. And you know many as you think about marriage and the way people view it today, I want to tell you Christ honors this union so much. So much so that the first miracle that he ever performed, he performed it in a marriage at a wedding in Cana. And we might think, oh Christ probably marriages do not matter. Christ honors the marriage union. And it was at the wedding of Kana where he chose to perform his first miracle as he began his ministry. I don't know if you remember the time when you became part of the bride of Christ or I don't know what is going on in your marriage relationship but I just want to iterate this point but that marriage was was instituted for the joy of man but God uses it as a symbol to show his intimacy with his church. to show his intimacy with his church. My brother, I don't know if you have any comments to add to that. I know you have uh not entered into this beautiful and blessed union as of yet. Um but I'm glad that you are joining us today in this discussion as well. And um there are a few aspects brought up especially still within the context of the marriage relationship. Um the Bible has symbols and images of a woman in the book of Revelation chapter 12 that we are seeing a great wonder appearing um in heaven and a woman clothed in the sun and we are seeing um images of a hallowed woman and we are seeing images of um uh an adulterous woman or fornication things that we only could have seen in the marriage relationship. Actually maybe my brother you can talk us talk to us about this. what does a woman represent in Bible prophecy, especially as we read the book of Revelation, and then I would want you to chime in and just tell us how God wants us to how God wants to clothe his bride and prepare his bride. Thank you. Uh we can actually go uh to the to what is effectively the Monday part studying Ezekiel chapter 16 and we will see that the description we have is uh uh almost the most vivid description that God has with Israel. um describing Israel as his own bride. And we are told in Ezekiel 16:3 in in very unflattering terms because this uh prophecy through Ezekiel is both um a commendation but also a rebuke to them because Israelites were getting puffed up. They assumed that you know um we are God's chosen people. Uh God has blessed us and us alone. We are our descendants you know is of the highest. God is God actually begins and says verse three of Ezekiel chapter 16 um thy birth and the nativity is of the land of Canaan. Thy father was a an Amorite and thy mother was a Hitittite. Verse four, as for the nativity in the h in the day that thou was born, thy nel was not cracked, neither was thou washed in water to supple thee. Thou was not salted at all, nor swaddled at all. Very, very vivid. God is trying to describe to Israel that it is not that you descended from kings and gods. It is that your your your introduction into this world as Israel was actually from Canaan. In fact, we know that Abraham came from which land? It was a land that um was of heathen worship, you know, like pagan worshippers, worshippers of you know um uh heathen things, the sun and the sky and things like that. And God called them out. And God is trying to tell you and I the same thing that yes God wants to establish a very intimate union but number one let us appreciate that we must exercise humility and not pride say you know I am a Christian or I am an Adventist. No you are somebody who was in the beginning unwashed and unclean. You are in sin and God calls you out of that wretched state. It is it is it is not that we are beating ourselves down but acknowledging where it is God actually met us. where God met us, where God met the church, where God met ancient Israel. And as the parable continues, uh you see God um actually nourishes this young one up until the young one becomes a bride. Verse 8, we are told, "When I passed by thee and looked upon thee, thy t was thy term was love of love." And we are told in verse 9 and in verse 10 that God proceeds to h clothe and to adorn the this woman and effectively make this woman um a bride. In verse 14 we are told thy renown went forth among the heathen for thy beauty for it was what perfect through my comeliness which I had put upon thee. So this intimate relationship that God is establishing is for the sake of raising up the church, Israel and even you and I as individuals uh uh from a state of of sinfulness and washing and clean state to a state of righteousness which I know my brother will discuss in much more detail. But the key thing here is that God is very vividly describing that relationship as one between a woman and and a a wife and the husband. And that symbolism is very important. We'll actually see later on that that this special union is shattered. This special and very intimate union is shattered in very unfortunate ways and God is driven to do drastic measures to try and recover this intimate union. It is almost like uh in the e among the spouses there is adultery and we will get into much more detail on that. This idea of Israel h e the church being the bride of Christ is not found only here in Ezekiel. In fact, you can check Ezekiel 23. You can check in the book of Jeremiah chapter 6:2 where we are told uh I have likened the daughter of Zion unto a comely and a delicate woman. We are told also in the book of 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians reading chapter 11 uh verse two. This is Paul speaking. And he says, "I am jealous over you with godly jealousy, for I have espoused unto you one husband that I may present you the church as a chasteed virgin unto Christ." The same idea is consistent that the church has always been symbolized as what? as a woman. And and this symbolism is important as we carry on, especially with this particular study and and especially when you look at symbols in the book of Revelation 12. There is a woman that is standing on the moon clothed with the sun with the crown of stars. We see another woman in Revelation chapter 17. This woman is called a harlot. She fornicates with the kings of the earth and persecutes the saints. H clearly we can see from this understanding here that those are descriptions not of women but of the church. The church in a state of purity and the church in a state of impurity. Impurity. Thank you. Very interesting. I don't know if you've opened the book of Revelation any time before in your life and you have looked at symbols like woman and you have probably been confused. I can see the Bible clearly has established that the woman represents the church of God either when the church is in a pure state or when the church is in a corrupt state. My brother, it's something that um um my uh Jaffith mentioned here that the woman's beauty comes not from anything that she had possessed but from the comeliness or the splendor of the one who called her and clothed her. Maybe if you can just break down to us what this splendor is, what this comeliness is and what gives the woman its beauty and how we as the bride of Christ can obtain that beauty. Indeed, I like uh to consider Isaiah 54 and verse 5 in which Isaiah says, "For your maker is your husband." Amen. The Lord of hosts is his name. That the woman uh is actually made by God. M even in in in the when John is looking at it from revelation, he sees a woman clothed in the sun where the son here is Christ indeed the son of righteousness. We we we are made worthy and we are acceptable and our beauty as a church and as a people of God is found in the merits of the blood of Christ in our faith and in our fidelity uh to him and to and and to and to what he what he has done for us. And in being faithful in that relationship, not only by creation but also by redemption. Then there we see a woman who is faithful to to God, not only as a creator but also as his redeemer is as a woman who is well well clothed with a with a wonderful garments as the as the uh our theme today has said uh has has asked us uh to reflect on um the key text revelation 19 and verse uh verse 9. It says and he said blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the lamb. There is a parable that Christ told about those who are invited to a wedding and then they were found without the wedding garment. The wedding garment and this wedding22 yes this wedding garment is in essence the story is speaking about the righteousness of Christ. What is your qualification to stand before God? What is your qualification to to to actually say that I am the bride of Christ? It is only in our relationship with Christ having humbled ourselves uh one as acknowledging Christ as a creator and ultimately knowing that there is none righteous know not one and that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God and we are saved by faith through grace in the merits of the sacrifice of Christ as our Lord and our savior. Amen. Amen. Amen. Actually, you just read Isaiah 54:5 and I just remembered verse 4 itself. Um, let me just read this as we continue on. It says, "Fear not, oh you bride and wife of Christ. For thou shalt not be ashamed, neither be thou confounded. For thou shalt not be put to shame, for thou shalt forget the shame of thy youth, and shall not remember the reproach of thy of thy widowhood anymore." And then it continues on say for thy maker is thine husband. That the bride of Christ Christ says I will take away your shame. I will take away your reproach. I will take away that past that past that may have been ugly before you joined this bride of Christ. That person he says you it will be forgotten. Why? Because your maker the one who created you is also your husband. He will restore you. He will restore you indeed. And actually now as we speak about this very beautiful imagery of Christ calling the church, the church that was um as I think they indicated was dirty, was corrupted, was um I mean had been covered in blood. Um this church that had been left to the to the welder is to just be eaten and left alone. No one cared for it. Christ called this church and clothed this church and made this church beautiful. Maybe if we can just reflect on a few lessons we can learn from a marriage we see in the Bible um between Isaac and Rebecca. I think this is a very good segue to go into this um on Isaac and Rebecca to just see lessons we can learn and how practically this was revealed even in this um um uh by human beings who lived here. Amen. So uh uh there's just one or two lessons that I want to um identify from Genesis chapter 24. Um focusing on verse one to verse 4, we find that Abraham is very old and he's looking for a um a wife for his son. And Abraham says unto his elder servant, verse two, uh that ruled over all that he had. Put I pray thee, thy hand o um under my thigh. Basically um almost like a an oath that he's making. And and what is the essence of this oath? I will make you swear by the Lord God of heaven uh the God of the earth that you shall not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell but thou shalt go unto my country and to my kindred to take a wife unto my son Isaac. So what does that mean? Uh uh uh I think it is number one important for us to understand why it is Abraham asked for this. You know sometimes this verse is used to to enable some of the um worst elements of human nature and human passion. People start injecting um discrimination like tribalism. You know he's saying like ah you know Abraham is here saying that don't go to this tribe go to this other tribe. The thing though is that biblically God has never cared about the externals. 1st Samuel chapter 16:7 when David the the second king of Israel is being chosen and before uh uh Samuel is the most imposing uh son the first second and third most imposing sons he's like surely this is the king of the king of Israel what does God say I do not see the outside I look at the heart so what is going on here it is that those h those areas that Abraham was presently in he was presently in Canaan at that time and he understood the heathen customs that were going on in that land and he understood that that that for God's people to to thrive they cannot thrive in an environment like this and a marriage cannot be established when one party and another party are opposed in doctrine and understanding. Paul himself said the same thing in the book of 2 Corinthians chapter 6 verse 14 onwards to 18. It says, "Do not be unequally yolked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship does righteousness have with unrighteousness? Or what communion does light have with darkness? What concord does Christ have with Baal or Bale in this case? What has he that is a believer um with an infidel? What agreement does the temple of God have with idols?" Why? Paul says, "You are a temple of the living God." And in this very very special case, Paul is saying um uh uh verse 17, "Come out from among them, be ye separate, says the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you and be a father, and you shall be my sons and daughters, says the Lord God Almighty." So we can see this is such an important e point that God does not want such unions to be established um with one party and the other party being opposed ideologically. In this case, one party not believing the truths that animate and drive the other party when Isaac needed one who was by his side who was equally aligned mentally, spiritually um with Isaac and could not therefore um find um a wife um who was in that area. We know for instance of of the sons of Isaac um Esso um Edom when he went and found uh wives in that area he found heathen wives and and and we are told clearly um that there were heathen wives who were who were basically practicing those heathen customs and which um it almost like catalyzed and continued the corruption of the heart of Edom. So this is an extremely important part that God desires for his bride in essence to be pure in what sense that God wants the church to to to to have what you talked about the righteousness that comes from Christ and not uh uh uh be besotted and and and filled with the things of the world, the things that contaminate the Christian and the spiritual experience. Amen. How can this bride remain pure? That means the bride cannot go out and interact with nations or interact with that which God says do not touch. Um I you you read a very Okay. Yes, please go ahead. Yeah. Uh in fact what you described um it's because we cut short our study of Ezekiel chapter 16. If you continue just from verse 15 onwards, you see precisely what happens to we will definitely come to it. Yes. But I there's a question that there's a a verse that you've just read there um that many young people struggle with about do not be unequally yolked with unbelievers. Who is an unbeliever? An unbeliever is one who does not believe in the present truth message at that time. So for instance in the time of uh Paul the present truth message was that Jesus Christ had come and that the Messiah was born in h a in uh Bethlehem and was living in Galilee none other than Jesus Christ of Nazareth and that the principles that Christ preached must be lived out. So uh uh those who would not believe the present truth revealed in the scripture are unfortunately unbelievers even if they have a name. You know in the time of Paul they could have called themselves Jews but even as Paul describes someone can be a Jew but not a Jew. So someone can be a Christian not a Christian. Someone can be Adventist not an Adventist. So it's about the heart. Does the heart and the mind is it animated with the truths God wants us to live by. Revelation 14 6-12 are one of the clearest demonstrations of the the truth God wants us to live by even today. Amen. Amen. And Isaac and Rebecca had a very beautiful um marriage. At least at the beginning we are told he loved her, he cared for her and he took her in as as a wife. There are few h a few points that are mentioned in the book of Ezekiel. I don't know if uh you were able to spot some of this that I spotted which align with Ezekiel chapter 16 um in verse um 57. My brother Rafael, would you kindly just read for us verse 57 and verse 58 of Genesis uh 24? Records the following verse 57 of Genesis chapter 24. It says, "And they said, we will call the damsel and inquire at her mouth." Ah, and they called Rebecca and said unto her, "Wilt thou go with this man?" And she said, I will go. Amen. Amen. I I find it very interesting that her wishes were consulted. It was a willing marriage. It was a willing engagement. She was not forced. Yes, she was not forced. She had to make a choice. And it is the same way with the bride of Christ. God never forced the bride of Christ. The bride of Christ, Israel still needed to consent to that covenant, including your relationship with Christ. God is not forcing you. God still wants you to consent. She was never forced. Even though she was, it was an arranged marriage. She was glad to go. And then something else when she's when she's leaving, she's given a very uh beautiful blessing that she's given in verse 60 of um Genesis chapter 24. Verse 60 says, "And they blessed Rebecca and said unto her, thou art at our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which help them." Amen. You know if you are very keen you will notice this is the same blessing that was given to Abraham as the father of the nations. He was told that your seed will possess the gates of your enemies. And Rebecca who was going to be one of the mothers of that seed. We know she was given the same blessing as though her her um her family was speaking the blessing prophetically that the same blessing of Abraham. May you indeed bear the blessing of Abraham. And this was God's intention with the church that they are going to possess the gates of their enemies. And the enemy is um the the the those who hate the children of God, those are the sinners and especially the devil himself that they would have victory over sin. But the question is did the church remain pure? When God called the church in the book of Ezekiel chapter 16, did the church remain pure? You know in Revelation chapter 17 another imagery is introduced and I want us to I want you my brother Rafael to dive into this. God calls the church in the book of uh Ezekiel and then they make a covenant but what happened to the church? What happened to the church and what does what is the imagery used in Revelation chapter 17? Indeed. Uh um now we transition to the aspect where um Ezekiel continues in verse 16 in chapter 16 rather he continues and he says that sometimes almost something akin to what happened to Lucifer. Yes. because of pride of her beauty of things which God is the one who equipped her with. You know it's interesting sometimes how the blessings of God if we introspect rather than give him glory. If we become self-centered because of the things that God has given us then the blessings that God has given us can turn out to be curses. You see the devil in if you read in Ezekiel chapter 28 and in Isaiah 14 we're told that he was full of beauty and wisdom until iniquity was found in you by virtue of of pride you know of the way he had been made. Similarly, this woman being a masterpiece of God, being uh a masterpiece of of of God by creation and also God coming to her rescue and redeeming her and pouring his blessings upon her. Soon enough because of her beauty, she starts whoring. You know, she becomes a harot. She goes, she forgets the one who has been sustaining her, the one who was dressed, the one who has fed her until now the nations are looking at her and she's attractive, you know, and then she goes out out and um and um and and interacts with these nations. And so in speaking to us about this aspect, we are we called to consider Hosea's hallowed wife. Hosea's hallowed wife. Uh we are told about a gentleman called Hosea who was a prophet, you know, and and in in a in a in a in a in a way God is trying to help us understand our spiritual situation through once again the vehicle that is marriage. You know, I think one of the things that we almost cross-culturally we find in almost all cultures is this institution called marriage. you know whether the number of wives may differ uh but nonetheless its sanctity and and and and and and the way it is honored in society across many cultures is the same. And so God uses the analogy of marriage to enable us to understand his relationship with us. And so he speaks and he tells Hosea a prophet to go and marry a hallot not by accident. You know, sometimes maybe you marry people with colorful pasts. You know, maybe she'll tell you later on and then you maybe you in your mind you wonder, okay, did I make a mistake? But then God God saves. You know, we understand God saves. All saints were once sinners. But in this particular case, this was a hallowot in this in the active of present continuous tense, not past. You know, like God is telling him, go pursue this lady who is a hallowed on purpose. And so in essence, God is trying to show us from his own perspective using um a a vehicle that we can understand the pain of human sin and rebellion. He's trying to show us that God had lovingly chosen a wife, Israel, and he had repeatedly cheated on him. And yet, astonishingly enough, the wonderful story of grace and of love and of the gospel, he still took her back and he restores her. And so uh he tells us in the book of Hosea uh verse one chapter 1 and verse 2 as well as Hosea chapter 3 and verse one it speaks about a wife of hodoms and children of hodoms. In uh Hosea chapter 3 and verse one it it say it speaks about the love of God for Israel. Yet Israel looks after what? At other gods. And now finally in Revelation chapter 17, we're told now in contrast to the woman of Revelation 12 who is clothed with the son which is the righteousness of God. There's a woman of Revelation chapter 17 and the Bible records from verse 1 and two. And there came and there came one of the seven angels which had seven vials and talked with me saying come he and I will show you unto thee the judgment of the great  that sits upon what? Many waters. In verse two, it says, "With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication." You see, speaking about Babylon, you know, to a certain extent that this bride of Christ at some point changes uh allegiances, at some point walks away from the sacred bounds of this marriage and God feels betrayed. We see a husband betrayed by his wife in a patriarchal society in a society which sort of uh in a sense um placed a man uh at the pedestal. This was one of the heights of betrayal and one of the greatest pains even in our society today. Sad to say uh it's hypocritical but more often than not the the discretions of a man society tends to sort of understand them. Yes. to cover them. But the discretions of a wife are looked down upon. You know, a wife who moves away from her marriage, a wife who is purposefully ruining her home. Society looks down upon this. Yet it is the same analogy that God uses to teach us about how when we are unfaithful to him, we are going a whoring after other nations. Yes. Very very interesting. And I I I think one of the things that uh um mentioned here is how amazing that God still desires this church. Even when he's in hallow tree, he still wants to save this church. But before we dive into it, father, maybe you can give us practically how historically the church descended into hallow tree. Yes. So historically very quickly um uh uh uh the church just as Israel the church was in a state of of persecution and unlike Israel the church does not have armies. So when when God's people were being persecuted for they had a very strange religion. They were living in a time when when you know um uh the Roman religion had so many gods Jupiter, Juno, um Mava etc etc. So many strange gods. uh h at that time uh e eh the church was in a state where they were called atheists and superstitious because they worshiped one single god contrary to the religion of Rome and so they were offending number one the people because they were so different from the people and and and refused to worship their systems they were offending even the economic systems you know in the book of acts I think it is chapter 17 I'm not sure when there was um a silver smith who used to make idols who realized that as soon as people um convert to Christianity, they stop buying his idols. His business goes down, you know. So, so they're offending the economy of that time, they're offending the priests and they are offending unfortunately, most importantly, the emperor who was considered in a sense uh almost the chief son of the gods or even the god himself, a small god himself. And so at that time, Christianity was so opposed to that system that it had to be unfortunately uh put down. And so it was put down very in a very bloody fashion. uh in uh in some parts when it was very small it was not that severe but around the 270s and the 300s that is when the persecution became extremely extremely severe. There was in fact one particular emperor whose name was the ecclesian who enacted a decree that would wipe out all Christians, remove Christians from all positions of authority being magistrates and the like removed Christians from all positions. Even their temples were taken from them and they were to be killed. Basically Christianity was going to be wiped out. And this decree lasted for a whole period of 10 years up until a particular emperor came up who felt that it was expedient for him to change his tactics because there was a huge war in Rome. Various people were vying for that particular throne. And each of those um h would be emperors had an idea of how he would unify. Some emperors were thinking they would go really hard on the Roman religion and return it to its peak and utterly destroy Christianity. But then there was one called Constantine who felt that the best way would be a political way to try and form like a diplomatic union with Christians who were united and yet sep yet almost spread all over the Roman Empire and as a result he decided to make these overtures with Christianity. He made uh first of all he he uh removed the the ban on Christianity and then the second thing he did after making Christianity a legal religion he made it the official state religion and he said that that he had received this this vision in the sky he saw like the sign of a cross etc etc and and as a result of that Christianity was you could say saved but it was saved in a way when the Christians were made an expectation that they would embrace h this amalgam this mixture of paganism as well as Christianity. So at that particular time when it looked like Christianity has been saved you could say it was a time unfortunately when Christianity reached its lowest levels very very quickly. It began to now seek after the power of the state to to resolve some of its disputes. It was having controversies for instance of the nature of God. And so there was a group of people who believed in the trinity. Others believed that Jesus was like a demigod. There was only one God. And so emperor after emperor. So Constantine for instance supported the trinity. His son Constantius was an aryan. So when Constantine was in power the trinitarians came to him and and asked for power to persecute the aryans. And then Constantius his son when he was in power the Aryan bishops came to him and and and and asked for power to persecute the trinitarians. And then when the emperor who came after him the same thing vice versa. You can see that is not how we resolve conflicts here my brother. You know when we're having a discussion of Bible of the book of Daniel and we disagree I I should not look for the power of the state the police officer to come and get you you know and and it corrupts Christianity because at that time it appears that might makes right and not a simple study of the word of God and so many other false teachings flowed into Christianity because of that unholy union between the church and the states. straight. Yes. It said the with whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication. And how is that fornication being manifest today? Now we've seen what happened then. How is it being manifest today? How is the church actually committing fornication today? Indeed. Um um as as Jaffa has rightly put it. So when the church now seeks for help beyond God, when when we as church members are not leaning on what God can do for us to help our circumstance and our situation and we go and look for human and and and uh sometimes to certain extent most human uh human solutions are actually um the the the the work the chief architect is usually the devil in the details somewhere there within the shadows hiding. And so um sometimes uh for this particular church, we see a church that moved away from faithfulness to Christ and depending on him and his righteousness and now sustaining itself as as as as as the kingdoms of the world, as the people of the world and and and it had many many things. Uh you see you see see it says uh it interacted and there was some some some some sort of tread that happened you know which means there's some things it sold and there some things it bought and we we we see that some of the things that were actually bought into Christendom which were hither to uh as long as the church was was faithful to Christ that weren't there were things such as the false Sabbath you know the worship of Sunday which was the venerable day of the sun which is a day of pagan worship where they were actually worshiping the You see, and now it becomes eventually adopted and becomes the official day of worship for Christians. Something which had never been done by those the early church, the church and the Christians who were faithful uh to God. And so the Bible continues and says many other things and uh and the lesson author says God's people wandered outside their relationship with him in order to find solutions for perceived problems. You see uh and and and in many times sometimes u um we see ultimately as you as as it's still speaking about maybe I'm going ahead a bit uh Revelation 17 we're called to consider also Revelation 18. In Revelation 18 we hear a loud voice from heaven and this voice says what? Come out to her my people. That means that God still has his people out there. Yeah, it's still the same story of Isaiah that God is still actively pursuing. You know the story of Isaiah, we're told of a woman who kept leaving a house, kept leaving Hosea. Yes. Hosea's Hosea's wife kept leaving actively multiple times. But still we see it's almost like the gospel story of of of of of um one one one poet calls God uh in in a poem writes about the hound of heaven. How uh God God is like a dog. you know hounds, blood hounds and and the way they can catch a scent and they can track you and track you and they pursue and pursue and pursue and pursue. So similarly God uh God is pursuing uh God is still pursuing his people and ultimately as as he still tells them where they have gone wrong. He still says they are still my people there and his message to us is come out of her my people. My people come out of her my people. You know today there are nations calling for the church to become one. The same way they chose the power of Constantine. Um they are also looking for the power of Constantine today. Ecumenical movements. Ecumenical movements happening today. And even here in Kenya you have seen the church seeking the power of the state to get help from the state even money sometimes unfortunately. Yes. And this is what God calls fornication corruption. But beyond that how have you also fornicated as part of the bride of Christ? Have you deviated from some of these truths? Have you been unfaithful in your walk with Christ? Christ is pursuing you and desires you to come back to him. Now, another question that I want you to uh dive into. Will this harlot continue ruling in corruption? Will this harlot continue ruling in corruption? I think you hinted at it when you read Revelation 17 verse1. But what happens to the harlot? What is the end of the hallot? What is the end of unfaithfulness whether as a Christian or even as a church system? Indeed. And uh it ask it calls us to consider um Revelation 19 verse 1 to9. And the Bible records the following from the King James version. It says, "And after these things, I heard a great voice of much people in heaven saying, Hallelujah, salvation and glory and honor and power unto the Lord our God. For true and righteous are his judgments. For he hath judged the great or the hallot, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and has avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. Indeed, we've seen that a woman in Bible prophecy is is is a church. And a woman who is faithful is a faithful church. But a woman who has walked away from her husband is termed as a And so when we're talking about this uh this hope of revelation, we're actually talking about it can be it can narrow down to ourselves when we're not faithful, but ultimately he's also talking about a a religio political system that is in place that was once that could once trace its roots in faithfulness to God. But ultimately somewhere along the line after Constantine came somewhere along the line after many other things came this uh this movement this once religious movement this one this movement that was once standing has has fallen aside and so it's speaking about a church a worldwide church that has sold its its theories that has sold its teachings to the whole world and the whole world has embraced it. Sad to say even some Protestant nations, some Protestant churches rather today still practice and they they um in fact the way it is put in uh Revelation 17 it's called the wine of Babylon. Some nations some some some some churches today have actually partaken of the wine of Babylon. And for this reason you are told the Bible says he did corrupt the earth with her fornication and as have and and and and and she even persecuted the saints. But the Bible says judgment will come you know and the and the saints are saying allelujah salvation and glory and honor and power for true and righteous are his judgments for heath judged the great  which did corrupt the earth with her fornication and has avenged the blood of his servants at her hand. Verse three says, "And yet again they say allelujah, and the smoke and her smoke rises up forever and ever that her her judgment, her her destruction is eternal. It's it's with finality forever and ever. Evil shall not raise up again." Amen. God will settle their accounts once and for all. Verse four verse four says and the 24 elders and the four beasts fell down and worshiped God and the and and God that sat the throne saying amen and allelujah. Verse 5 says and a voice came out of the throne saying praise our God all ye servants and ye that fear him both small and great. And the Bible continues and says there was a great voice a voice as as a great as as as a voice of a great multitude as a voice of many waters and as a voice of many thunderings and lightnings. And all of these voices are praising God saying what allelujah for the Lord God omnipotent reignth. And he continues and says, "Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him for the marriage of the lamb is come and his wife hath made herself ready." And in verse 8 it says, "And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, for the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints, which is the righteousness of Christ." And Conan says, "And he said unto me, write, blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb." And he said unto me, these are the true sayings of God. Amen. Bible is telling us that the hallot will be judged. is telling us that indeed uh though it seems as if um mercy is is is is letting is is is letting people get away with a lot, a time will come in which God will say that the door of mercy will be shut. He who is righteous, let him be righteous still. He who is evil or wicked, let him remain what? Let him be wicked still. But before that comes the message of revelation 18 that God still acknowledges that they are his people there. There are his people there. One thing that will happen eventually there will be a separation. The harlot will be judged. Those who have walked away from from from from true fidelity to God and to his word. Judgment has been set aside for them. But then there are those who having deviated from a relationship with God and walked in hallow tree. But when they hear the message of revelation 18 which is the three angels messages the message of that is calling the children of God back to to him and to and and and to his righteousness and to Christ uh our savior. Then they will be now those who enter into that marriage supper of the lamb. those who enter into the wedding feast of of of of the lamb. Revelation chapter 21 also speaks uh verse 1 to4 it speaks about new Jerusalem is talked about as a bride prepared and adoned for who? For her bridegroom. And it is in the context of of the resurrection. It is the context of a new heaven and a new earth. And we are called to witness you know uh this uh this marriage this imagery that is used that is used uh here sister white writes in the book testimonies to the church volume 7 page 46 and she writes and says marriage a union for life is a symbol of the union between Christ and his church and the and that the spirit that Christ manifests towards the church is a spirit that husband and wife are to manifest towards each other. Christ suffered unimaginable pain as the human race rejected him and gave the affection that belonged to him to other gods. And yet even then he gave himself for us paying in himself for infidelities and adulteries so that if we repent and turn away from them we have the promise of eternal life. Amen. But if we do not, then Revelation 19 tells us a time is coming where the saints of God will rejoice at the persecution rather at the judgment and the destruction of the war, the or the harlot of Revelation 17. Amen. Amen. You know the Bible says that indeed offenses will come but war unto him through whom offenses through whom offenses come. that this harlot, this system that has lied to people, you will save be saved by your works. That you need to do this to be saved. That you need to come through a priest, this system will be judged, that those that system that has led people to stumble will indeed be judged. But God is saying that he wants his bride to be ready. The um Christ object lessons page 69 says that Christ is waiting with longing desire for his church to be ready. Yes, the harlot will be judged. But are you preparing yourself? Are you one of the five wise virgins? Preparing yourself, making yourself ready to meet the bridegroom. I don't know if you have final thoughts as we close this and we uh we pray. I think um my final thought is just on on how clear that description is biblically that a woman in Bible prophecy represents the church and and historically what happened to the church when the church failed to uphold its marriage vow faithfulness to Christ and to his word and and instead embrace the systems of the world. We should be very we should not look judgmentally for instance the same way we don't look judgmentally on Israel. We don't look judgmentally on on the history of of the Christian church and say, "Oh, you know, perhaps maybe if you're among them, you'd be even more quickly h to embrace idolatry." It is instead for us to to to to seek h the Lord for forgiveness, for confession. Um that God would give us a new heart and would enable us to be more faithful every single day. and in so doing now reach out to our brothers and sisters who who may inadvertently be embracing systems of worship that are not biblical but come from uh from from outside of the scriptures. Amen. Amen. My brother Rafael, kindly pray with us as we close this discussion. Let's believe and pray. Our kind loving father and master, art in heaven, we thank you and praise your name for indeed you use the known to teach us things unknown. This week we've been able to see that indeed when you gave Adam and Eve the institution of marriage in essence you're also giving them a booklet a template of the type of relationship that you would desire to have with us. Dear Lord I pray that indeed it is clear that you are faithful. Help our faithfulness. We believe dear Lord. Help our unbelief. Help us dear Lord if indeed we belong to that camp that needs to hear the message that we need to come out of her. I do not know what her may be. I don't know where we in our personal relationships may have woken may have walked outside of your will and outside of our sacred vows once we entered into this marriage relationship through baptism and when we took those vows to say indeed dear Jesus that we shall walk with you. But it is my prayer this day that you may speak to us lovingly and that you will not give up on us and that indeed when that day comes dear Lord we shall find ourselves ready and having on that the wedding garments which is your righteousness. This our most humble prayer make it our experience through your holy name we pray and believe. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[8.0s] Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you
[10.7s] so much for joining us today, brothers
[13.2s] and sisters, to study the word of God
[15.0s] with us. I am particularly excited about
[18.2s] the lesson discussion that we are having
[20.3s] today. Thank you for joining New Life
[22.7s] 7th Day Adventist Church on Fifth Gong
[25.4s] Avenue. I am joined here with uh a
[28.3s] couple of my friends um whom I would
[30.4s] like them to introduce themselves and
[32.1s] then we will start this discussion
[34.4s] together. Um maybe we can start our
[36.6s] introduction from this side. My name is
[38.6s] Enango Rafa. It's a pleasure to be with
[40.7s] you. Amen. And today we are joined by my
[44.2s] wonderful husband and I would like him
[45.8s] to introduce himself as well. Thank you.
[48.6s] Uh very apt because we're discussing
[50.4s] marriage. Uh my name is Jafet Throno.
[54.0s] Amen. and my name is Jess Rono. Today we
[57.3s] are looking at images from marriage. As
[60.6s] I mentioned that the book of revelation
[63.5s] which is our focus this quarter is
[66.2s] filled with many symbols, a lot of
[69.3s] imagery, a lot of illusions which we
[71.8s] will help you and as we study together
[74.2s] actually help each other to unravel
[76.2s] what's what are some of these symbols,
[77.7s] what are some of these mysteries. And
[79.8s] before we dive into images from
[81.9s] marriage, I will ask uh my husband to
[85.4s] pray with us. Okay, let's pray. Heavenly
[89.0s] Father, we thank you for the opportunity
[90.3s] you've given us to discuss this topic of
[93.7s] uh marriage. We ask that your holy
[95.6s] spirit give us insight and understanding
[97.6s] that our discussion may glorify your
[99.4s] name and that all the hearers um all of
[102.3s] our friends who are listening uh uh may
[104.7s] be edified in Jesus name I pray. Amen.
[107.0s] Amen. Amen. Amen. All right. Our key
[109.9s] text for this week comes from the book
[112.6s] of Revelation chapter 19 verse9.
[116.2s] Revelation 19:9. Brother Raphael, would
[119.1s] you kindly read for us? Reading from the
[121.4s] New King James Version, the Bible
[122.7s] records and says, "Then he said to me,
[125.8s] write, "Blessed are those who are called
[128.0s] the marriage supper of the lamb." And he
[130.1s] said to me, "These are the true sayings
[132.4s] of God." Amen. It's interesting that
[135.3s] Christ says that there's a marriage
[137.7s] supper of the lamb. That there's a
[140.1s] supper that is coming at the end of
[142.3s] time. But he does not just say it is any
[145.0s] kind of supper. It is a marriage supper
[148.7s] that go because Christ uses um this
[151.9s] imagery of marriage which we want to
[153.7s] unravel today. I am particularly excited
[156.1s] about it because I have not been married
[158.0s] for so long and marriage has been a true
[161.1s] blessing in my own life. But when he
[163.9s] says the marriage supper of the lamb,
[165.9s] I'm reminded I think it is last week we
[167.9s] just had our holy communion and we were
[170.4s] excited to partake of this holy
[172.3s] communion together and we were so happy
[176.0s] that we could commemorate the symbol of
[179.1s] of what Christ has done for us by dying
[181.5s] for us on the cross. And you know, one
[183.5s] of the things that Christ said when he
[185.4s] spoke to his disciples, he said, "I will
[188.4s] never again partake of this until we
[191.8s] meet together in heaven." This is that
[194.4s] marriage supper of the lamb that is
[196.2s] spoken of that Christ will never partake
[198.4s] of that bread and wine until he reunites
[201.5s] with us. And you know today marriage has
[204.9s] truly been tarnished. The u people have
[207.9s] a lot of um rates. I think they give you
[210.1s] a lot of statistics when you want to
[211.6s] consider marry like are you sure you
[213.2s] want to do this because 50% or is it 60%
[217.2s] a very high percentage of the marriages
[219.1s] end up in divorce divorce yes and you'll
[221.4s] hear a lot of stories about people who
[223.6s] are very unhappy in their marriages but
[226.7s] the Bible gives us this symbol of
[228.8s] marriage not as something that is
[230.7s] tarnished or something that is defiled
[233.0s] but one that represents the intimate
[235.6s] relationship between Christ and his
[238.9s] church. I want us to just go to the book
[241.0s] of Genesis chapter 2 verse
[243.9s] 23-2. Let us just turn to the book of
[246.1s] Genesis chapter 2
[248.4s] 23-2 to illustrate this this intimate
[253.0s] connection that God wants to have with
[255.4s] his church. Would you kindly read for
[256.9s] us? Thank you. Genesis chapter 2 verse
[259.3s] 23-2. And I'm reading from King James.
[261.5s] You may follow with me from your own
[262.9s] translations. It says, "And Adam said,
[265.8s] this is now born of my bones, and flesh
[268.5s] of my flesh. She shall be called woman,
[271.0s] because she was taken out of man.
[273.8s] Therefore shall a man leave his father
[275.6s] and his mother and shall cleave unto his
[277.8s] wife, and they too shall be one flesh.
[280.6s] And they were both naked, the man and
[282.5s] his wife, and were not ashamed." And you
[285.8s] know in the same way that the Bible says
[288.8s] that Adam and Eve were to become one
[291.6s] flesh in marriage in that happy union
[293.9s] the first union we see in the garden of
[295.9s] Eden. So Christ says I want to become
[299.6s] one with humanity. The Bible actually
[302.7s] says that this is a mystery. Let us read
[306.1s] from the book of Ephesians. Let us turn
[308.6s] to the book of Ephesians chapter 5 verse
[311.4s] 29-32. So Ephesians chapter 5 from verse
[315.9s] 29-32 the Bible records and says for no
[319.8s] man ever yet hated his own flesh but
[323.2s] nourisheth and cherisheth it even as the
[326.1s] Lord the church for we are members of
[329.7s] his body of his flesh and of his bones.
[333.2s] For this cause shall a man leave his
[335.1s] father and mother and shall be joined
[337.0s] unto his wife and they too shall be one
[340.4s] flesh. This is a great mystery but I
[343.6s] speak concerning Christ and the church.
[346.3s] Amen. It is called a great mystery. It
[349.3s] is called a great mystery. But you know
[351.2s] how the the passage start? It starts by
[353.5s] saying that no man who loves the wife
[356.5s] who ate his own flesh because they have
[358.6s] become one. They have become one flesh.
[361.6s] And Christ says the way the man is one
[364.6s] flesh with the wife. So do I desire to
[367.8s] be one flesh with the church. And he
[370.4s] says, "The same way a man will not hate
[372.7s] his own flesh is the same way I will not
[375.2s] hate my own flesh." And the Bible is
[377.5s] keen to call this a mystery. You know
[379.8s] what other things the Bible calls a
[381.7s] mystery? The Bible speaks of a few
[383.8s] mysteries, but there's one min mystery
[386.2s] that I particularly like. In the book of
[388.3s] 1 Timothy
[390.4s] 3:16, we are told that the con by common
[393.8s] confession, grace is the mystery of
[396.0s] what? Godliness. Great is the mystery of
[398.4s] godliness. When Christ becomes man, when
[402.8s] humanity and divinity becomes one. And
[407.3s] therefore the same way Christ became I
[410.1s] mean the same way a man and a woman
[412.7s] becomes one to symbolize Christ and the
[415.8s] church Christ wants to become one with
[418.4s] you. Christ wants to have such an
[420.8s] intimate relationship that the only way
[423.5s] the closest way he could represent how
[426.4s] intimate this relationship can be is by
[429.7s] teaching us this relationship through
[432.3s] marriage only through marriage. And you
[435.0s] know today many marriages end up in
[437.7s] divorce. Many marriages end up in
[439.6s] divorce. Many marriages actually are not
[442.2s] doing well. Many marriages are not doing
[444.6s] well. But Christ wants us to be perfect.
[447.0s] I just want to ask you, my husband,
[449.0s] because you're here, sorry for putting
[450.5s] you um in the spotlight, but some of the
[453.4s] principles that we can apply in
[455.9s] marriage, especially as symbolized um by
[459.1s] uh by Christ, how Christ selflessly
[462.4s] loves the church and honors the marriage
[465.2s] union. Thank you. Uh I think uh as you
[467.8s] said and as actually we will see much
[469.3s] more clearly in this lesson uh the
[471.7s] representation of Christ in the church
[473.9s] uh uh uh is best reflected in that
[476.2s] between husband and wife. And I see that
[479.0s] the way Christ would interact with the
[481.0s] church is the best way that spouses can
[483.2s] relate to each other. the kind of
[485.1s] patience that Christ has, the level of
[487.4s] forgiveness that Christ has, the level
[489.6s] of a strong desire to to to manifest
[493.5s] great love and affection to do good
[495.4s] works for for for the other party. That
[498.6s] is precisely what we see in Christ and
[500.6s] what I know we see uh and my wife and I
[503.9s] would express in each other and what I
[505.8s] believe is the bedrock for h the most
[508.6s] wonderful and enabling and uplifting
[510.7s] marriage experience. one that is full of
[512.9s] love because love is expressed every
[514.6s] single day. In fact, I was thinking that
[516.8s] marriage is in a sense a kind of theater
[518.5s] of love where each of the parties are
[520.5s] both audience and actors. So you are
[522.6s] both you are both one who receives and
[524.6s] gives love not merely in words but even
[526.6s] in action and and in that sense reflect
[529.0s] truly that relationship that Christ
[531.2s] would ideally have with the church.
[533.1s] Amen. Amen. When we become part of the
[536.2s] bride of Christ, thank you for sharing
[538.2s] that. And you know many as you think
[540.4s] about marriage and the way people view
[542.5s] it today, I want to tell you Christ
[544.5s] honors this union so much. So much so
[547.4s] that the first miracle that he ever
[550.4s] performed, he performed it in a marriage
[553.1s] at a wedding in Cana. And we might
[555.1s] think, oh Christ probably marriages do
[557.2s] not matter. Christ honors the marriage
[560.3s] union. And it was at the wedding of Kana
[563.0s] where he chose to perform his first
[566.3s] miracle as he began his ministry. I
[569.5s] don't know if you remember the time when
[570.9s] you became part of the bride of Christ
[572.9s] or I don't know what is going on in your
[575.2s] marriage relationship but I just want to
[577.5s] iterate this point but that marriage was
[580.1s] was instituted for the joy of man but
[583.2s] God uses it as a symbol to show his
[586.3s] intimacy with his church. to show his
[589.3s] intimacy with his church. My brother, I
[591.3s] don't know if you have any comments to
[593.0s] add to that. I know you have uh not
[595.8s] entered into this beautiful and blessed
[598.3s] union as of yet. Um but I'm glad that
[601.8s] you are joining us today in this
[603.8s] discussion as well. And um there are a
[606.8s] few aspects brought up especially still
[609.1s] within the context of the marriage
[610.9s] relationship. Um the Bible has symbols
[613.8s] and images of a woman in the book of
[616.2s] Revelation chapter 12 that we are seeing
[618.6s] a great wonder appearing um in heaven
[621.7s] and a woman clothed in the sun and we
[624.6s] are seeing um images of a hallowed woman
[627.9s] and we are seeing images of um uh an
[631.3s] adulterous woman or fornication things
[633.7s] that we only could have seen in the
[635.5s] marriage relationship. Actually maybe my
[638.2s] brother you can talk us talk to us about
[640.2s] this. what does a woman represent in
[642.2s] Bible prophecy, especially as we read
[644.4s] the book of Revelation, and then I would
[646.5s] want you to chime in and just tell us
[648.2s] how God wants us to how God wants to
[650.9s] clothe his bride and prepare his bride.
[653.5s] Thank you. Uh we can actually go uh to
[656.2s] the to what is effectively the Monday
[658.2s] part studying Ezekiel chapter 16 and we
[661.0s] will see that the description we have is
[664.2s] uh uh almost the most vivid description
[667.0s] that God has with Israel. um describing
[670.1s] Israel as his own bride. And we are told
[672.9s] in Ezekiel 16:3 in in very unflattering
[676.2s] terms because this uh prophecy through
[678.6s] Ezekiel is both um a commendation but
[682.0s] also a rebuke to them because Israelites
[684.5s] were getting puffed up. They assumed
[685.9s] that you know um we are God's chosen
[688.6s] people. Uh God has blessed us and us
[691.3s] alone. We are our descendants you know
[693.7s] is of the highest. God is God actually
[695.8s] begins and says verse three of Ezekiel
[698.1s] chapter 16
[700.2s] um thy birth and the nativity is of the
[703.1s] land of Canaan. Thy father was a an
[706.2s] Amorite and thy mother was a Hitittite.
[708.5s] Verse four, as for the nativity in the h
[711.0s] in the day that thou was born, thy nel
[713.4s] was not cracked, neither was thou washed
[715.4s] in water to supple thee. Thou was not
[717.4s] salted at all, nor swaddled at all.
[719.8s] Very, very vivid. God is trying to
[721.7s] describe to Israel that it is not that
[723.8s] you descended from kings and gods. It is
[726.2s] that your your your introduction into
[729.0s] this world as Israel was actually from
[731.3s] Canaan. In fact, we know that Abraham
[733.4s] came from which land? It was a land that
[735.5s] um was of heathen worship, you know,
[737.5s] like pagan worshippers, worshippers of
[739.4s] you know um uh heathen things, the sun
[742.1s] and the sky and things like that. And
[743.7s] God called them out. And God is trying
[745.9s] to tell you and I the same thing that
[748.1s] yes God wants to establish a very
[750.3s] intimate union but number one let us
[752.7s] appreciate that we must exercise
[754.6s] humility and not pride say you know I am
[756.9s] a Christian or I am an Adventist. No you
[759.5s] are somebody who was in the beginning
[761.7s] unwashed and unclean. You are in sin and
[764.6s] God calls you out of that wretched
[766.6s] state. It is it is it is not that we are
[769.1s] beating ourselves down but acknowledging
[771.3s] where it is God actually met us. where
[773.8s] God met us, where God met the church,
[775.7s] where God met ancient Israel. And as the
[778.6s] parable continues, uh you see God um
[781.9s] actually nourishes this young one up
[784.9s] until the young one becomes a bride.
[786.8s] Verse 8, we are told, "When I passed by
[788.8s] thee and looked upon thee, thy t was thy
[791.0s] term was love of love." And we are told
[794.1s] in verse 9 and in verse 10 that God
[796.5s] proceeds to h clothe and to adorn the
[800.3s] this woman and effectively make this
[802.5s] woman um a bride. In verse 14 we are
[805.4s] told thy renown went forth among the
[807.6s] heathen for thy beauty for it was what
[809.9s] perfect through my comeliness which I
[812.1s] had put upon thee. So this intimate
[814.7s] relationship that God is establishing is
[816.9s] for the sake of raising up the church,
[819.4s] Israel and even you and I as individuals
[822.3s] uh uh from a state of of sinfulness and
[825.4s] washing and clean state to a state of
[827.3s] righteousness which I know my brother
[828.5s] will discuss in much more detail. But
[830.5s] the key thing here is that God is very
[833.4s] vividly describing that relationship as
[835.6s] one between a woman and and a a wife and
[839.0s] the husband. And that symbolism is very
[841.1s] important. We'll actually see later on
[843.3s] that that this special union is
[845.7s] shattered. This special and very
[847.6s] intimate union is shattered in very
[849.6s] unfortunate ways and God is driven to do
[852.7s] drastic measures to try and recover this
[855.2s] intimate union. It is almost like uh in
[858.0s] the e among the spouses there is
[860.1s] adultery and we will get into much more
[861.6s] detail on that. This idea of Israel h e
[866.0s] the church being the bride of Christ is
[868.2s] not found only here in Ezekiel. In fact,
[870.5s] you can check Ezekiel 23. You can check
[872.8s] in the book of Jeremiah chapter
[874.8s] 6:2 where we are told
[878.4s] uh I have likened the daughter of Zion
[880.6s] unto a comely and a delicate woman. We
[883.0s] are told also in the book of 2
[884.8s] Corinthians. 2 Corinthians reading
[887.1s] chapter 11 uh verse two. This is Paul
[890.1s] speaking. And he says, "I am jealous
[891.8s] over you with godly jealousy, for I have
[894.4s] espoused unto you one husband that I may
[897.8s] present you the church as a chasteed
[900.2s] virgin unto Christ." The same idea is
[902.2s] consistent that the church has always
[904.6s] been symbolized as what? as a woman. And
[907.4s] and this symbolism is important as we
[909.7s] carry on, especially with this
[911.1s] particular study and and especially when
[913.5s] you look at symbols in the book of
[914.8s] Revelation 12. There is a woman that is
[917.4s] standing on the moon clothed with the
[919.1s] sun with the crown of stars. We see
[921.8s] another woman in Revelation chapter 17.
[923.8s] This woman is called a harlot. She
[925.9s] fornicates with the kings of the earth
[927.5s] and persecutes the saints. H clearly we
[930.8s] can see from this understanding here
[932.8s] that those are descriptions not of women
[935.7s] but of the church. The church in a state
[938.3s] of purity and the church in a state of
[940.6s] impurity. Impurity. Thank you. Very
[942.5s] interesting. I don't know if you've
[943.6s] opened the book of Revelation any time
[945.4s] before in your life and you have looked
[947.8s] at symbols like woman and you have
[949.8s] probably been confused. I can see the
[952.1s] Bible clearly has established that the
[954.1s] woman represents the church of God
[956.5s] either when the church is in a pure
[958.6s] state or when the church is in a corrupt
[961.4s] state. My brother, it's something that
[964.4s] um um my uh Jaffith mentioned here that
[968.6s] the woman's beauty comes not from
[972.2s] anything that she had possessed but from
[974.9s] the comeliness or the splendor of the
[977.9s] one who called her and clothed her.
[980.4s] Maybe if you can just break down to us
[982.5s] what this splendor is, what this
[984.2s] comeliness is and what gives the woman
[986.7s] its beauty and how we as the bride of
[989.4s] Christ can obtain that beauty. Indeed, I
[992.5s] like uh to consider Isaiah 54 and verse
[995.8s] 5 in which Isaiah says, "For your maker
[998.3s] is your husband." Amen. The Lord of
[1000.2s] hosts is his name. That the woman uh is
[1003.8s] actually made by God. M even in in in
[1008.6s] the when John is looking at it from
[1010.6s] revelation, he sees a woman clothed in
[1012.4s] the sun where the son here is Christ
[1014.7s] indeed the son of righteousness. We we
[1016.7s] we are made worthy and we are acceptable
[1019.7s] and our beauty as a church and as a
[1021.8s] people of God is found in the merits of
[1024.6s] the blood of Christ in our faith and in
[1026.9s] our fidelity uh to him and to and and to
[1030.3s] and to what he what he has done for us.
[1033.0s] And in being faithful in that
[1034.4s] relationship, not only by creation but
[1036.8s] also by redemption. Then there we see a
[1039.8s] woman who is faithful to to God, not
[1043.1s] only as a creator but also as his
[1044.6s] redeemer is as a woman who is well well
[1048.1s] clothed with a with a wonderful garments
[1050.2s] as the as the uh our theme today has
[1054.5s] said uh has has asked us uh to reflect
[1057.8s] on um the key text revelation 19 and
[1059.8s] verse uh verse 9. It says and he said
[1061.7s] blessed are those who are called to the
[1063.0s] marriage supper of the lamb. There is a
[1065.2s] parable that Christ told about those who
[1067.9s] are invited to a wedding and then they
[1071.3s] were found without the wedding garment.
[1072.9s] The wedding garment and this wedding22
[1075.2s] yes this wedding garment is in essence
[1077.3s] the story is speaking about the
[1078.7s] righteousness of Christ. What is your
[1080.6s] qualification to stand before God? What
[1082.6s] is your qualification to to to actually
[1085.1s] say that I am the bride of Christ? It is
[1087.6s] only in our relationship with Christ
[1090.2s] having humbled ourselves uh one as
[1093.9s] acknowledging Christ as a creator and
[1096.3s] ultimately knowing that there is none
[1098.6s] righteous know not one and that all have
[1100.9s] sinned and fallen short of the glory of
[1102.6s] God and we are saved by faith through
[1105.4s] grace in the merits of the sacrifice of
[1108.3s] Christ as our Lord and our savior. Amen.
[1109.9s] Amen. Amen. Actually, you just read
[1112.2s] Isaiah 54:5 and I just remembered verse
[1115.2s] 4 itself. Um, let me just read this as
[1118.1s] we continue on. It says, "Fear not, oh
[1121.4s] you bride and wife of Christ. For thou
[1125.0s] shalt not be ashamed, neither be thou
[1129.7s] confounded. For thou shalt not be put to
[1132.7s] shame, for thou shalt forget the shame
[1135.6s] of thy youth, and shall not remember the
[1139.1s] reproach of thy of thy widowhood
[1141.8s] anymore." And then it continues on say
[1143.8s] for thy maker is thine husband. That the
[1146.3s] bride of Christ Christ says I will take
[1149.4s] away your shame. I will take away your
[1152.6s] reproach. I will take away that past
[1155.3s] that past that may have been ugly before
[1157.6s] you joined this bride of Christ. That
[1159.8s] person he says you it will be forgotten.
[1162.4s] Why? Because your maker the one who
[1165.0s] created you is also your husband. He
[1167.5s] will restore you. He will restore you
[1169.8s] indeed. And actually now as we speak
[1172.0s] about this very beautiful imagery of
[1174.8s] Christ calling the church, the church
[1176.6s] that was um as I think they indicated
[1179.4s] was dirty, was corrupted, was um I mean
[1183.2s] had been covered in blood. Um this
[1185.8s] church that had been left to the to the
[1188.2s] welder is to just be eaten and left
[1190.7s] alone. No one cared for it. Christ
[1193.0s] called this church and clothed this
[1195.5s] church and made this church beautiful.
[1198.6s] Maybe if we can just reflect on a few
[1200.6s] lessons we can learn from a marriage we
[1202.7s] see in the Bible um between Isaac and
[1205.8s] Rebecca. I think this is a very good
[1207.3s] segue to go into this um on Isaac and
[1210.2s] Rebecca to just see lessons we can learn
[1213.0s] and how practically this was revealed
[1216.0s] even in this um um uh by human beings
[1219.0s] who lived here. Amen. So uh uh there's
[1221.9s] just one or two lessons that I want to
[1224.2s] um identify from Genesis chapter 24. Um
[1227.8s] focusing on verse one to verse 4, we
[1230.2s] find that Abraham is very old and he's
[1233.0s] looking for a um a wife for his son. And
[1236.5s] Abraham says unto his elder servant,
[1238.3s] verse two, uh that ruled over all that
[1240.5s] he had. Put I pray thee, thy hand o um
[1242.9s] under my thigh. Basically um almost like
[1245.4s] a an oath that he's making. And and what
[1248.8s] is the essence of this oath? I will make
[1250.8s] you swear by the Lord God of heaven uh
[1253.6s] the God of the earth that you shall not
[1255.7s] take a wife unto my son of the daughters
[1258.6s] of the Canaanites among whom I dwell but
[1260.8s] thou shalt go unto my country and to my
[1263.1s] kindred to take a wife unto my son
[1266.0s] Isaac. So what does that mean? Uh uh uh
[1269.7s] I think it is number one important for
[1271.3s] us to understand why it is Abraham asked
[1275.1s] for this. You know sometimes this verse
[1276.6s] is used to to enable some of the um
[1280.2s] worst elements of human nature and human
[1282.3s] passion. People start injecting um
[1285.5s] discrimination like tribalism. You know
[1287.7s] he's saying like ah you know Abraham is
[1289.4s] here saying that don't go to this tribe
[1291.4s] go to this other tribe. The thing though
[1293.6s] is that biblically God has never cared
[1295.7s] about the externals. 1st Samuel chapter
[1298.3s] 16:7 when David the the second king of
[1301.9s] Israel is being chosen and before uh uh
[1305.8s] Samuel is the most imposing uh son the
[1309.5s] first second and third most imposing
[1310.9s] sons he's like surely this is the king
[1312.6s] of the king of Israel what does God say
[1315.4s] I do not see the outside I look at the
[1317.8s] heart so what is going on here it is
[1320.3s] that those h those areas that Abraham
[1323.8s] was presently in he was presently in
[1325.8s] Canaan at that time and he understood
[1328.0s] the heathen customs that were going on
[1330.2s] in that land and he understood that that
[1333.1s] that for God's people to to thrive they
[1337.0s] cannot thrive in an environment like
[1338.7s] this and a marriage cannot be
[1340.1s] established when one party and another
[1342.2s] party are opposed in doctrine and
[1344.2s] understanding. Paul himself said the
[1346.1s] same thing in the book of 2 Corinthians
[1348.2s] chapter 6 verse 14 onwards to 18. It
[1351.2s] says, "Do not be unequally yolked
[1353.2s] together with unbelievers. For what
[1355.2s] fellowship does righteousness have with
[1356.7s] unrighteousness? Or what communion does
[1359.0s] light have with darkness? What concord
[1361.6s] does Christ have with Baal or Bale in
[1364.6s] this case? What has he that is a
[1366.9s] believer um with an infidel? What
[1369.7s] agreement does the temple of God have
[1371.6s] with idols?" Why? Paul says, "You are a
[1374.4s] temple of the living God." And in this
[1376.3s] very very special case, Paul is saying
[1378.8s] um uh uh verse 17, "Come out from among
[1381.4s] them, be ye separate, says the Lord, and
[1383.9s] touch not the unclean thing, and I will
[1386.2s] receive you and be a father, and you
[1388.3s] shall be my sons and daughters, says the
[1390.3s] Lord God Almighty." So we can see this
[1392.6s] is such an important e point that God
[1396.3s] does not want such unions to be
[1398.8s] established um with one party and the
[1401.6s] other party being opposed ideologically.
[1404.3s] In this case, one party not believing
[1407.0s] the truths that animate and drive the
[1409.8s] other party when Isaac needed one who
[1412.7s] was by his side who was equally aligned
[1415.4s] mentally, spiritually um with Isaac and
[1418.5s] could not therefore um find um a wife um
[1422.1s] who was in that area. We know for
[1423.7s] instance of of the sons of Isaac um Esso
[1427.3s] um Edom when he went and found uh wives
[1430.2s] in that area he found heathen wives and
[1432.6s] and and we are told clearly um that
[1434.6s] there were heathen wives who were who
[1436.2s] were basically practicing those heathen
[1437.9s] customs and which
[1440.1s] um it almost like catalyzed and
[1443.1s] continued the corruption of the heart of
[1445.4s] Edom. So this is an extremely important
[1447.7s] part that God desires for his bride in
[1450.6s] essence to be pure in what sense that
[1453.8s] God wants the church to to to to have
[1456.5s] what you talked about the righteousness
[1458.2s] that comes from Christ and not uh uh uh
[1461.4s] be besotted and and and filled with the
[1464.5s] things of the world, the things that
[1466.6s] contaminate the Christian and the
[1468.1s] spiritual experience. Amen. How can this
[1471.4s] bride remain pure? That means the bride
[1475.3s] cannot go out and interact with nations
[1478.2s] or interact with that which God says do
[1480.4s] not touch. Um I you you read a very
[1483.3s] Okay. Yes, please go ahead. Yeah. Uh in
[1485.2s] fact what you described um it's because
[1487.3s] we cut short our study of Ezekiel
[1488.8s] chapter 16. If you continue just from
[1490.6s] verse 15 onwards, you see precisely what
[1493.1s] happens to we will definitely come to
[1495.0s] it. Yes. But I there's a question that
[1497.4s] there's a a verse that you've just read
[1499.5s] there um that many young people struggle
[1502.3s] with about do not be unequally yolked
[1505.4s] with unbelievers. Who is an unbeliever?
[1508.2s] An unbeliever is one who does not
[1510.4s] believe in the present truth message at
[1513.0s] that time. So for instance in the time
[1514.7s] of uh Paul the present truth message was
[1516.7s] that Jesus Christ had come and that the
[1519.2s] Messiah was born in h a in uh Bethlehem
[1524.3s] and was living in Galilee none other
[1526.2s] than Jesus Christ of Nazareth and that
[1528.9s] the principles that Christ preached must
[1531.0s] be lived out. So uh uh those who would
[1534.3s] not believe the present truth revealed
[1536.1s] in the scripture are unfortunately
[1538.0s] unbelievers even if they have a name.
[1540.3s] You know in the time of Paul they could
[1542.5s] have called themselves Jews but even as
[1545.1s] Paul describes someone can be a Jew but
[1547.1s] not a Jew. So someone can be a Christian
[1549.2s] not a Christian. Someone can be
[1550.6s] Adventist not an Adventist. So it's
[1552.7s] about the heart. Does the heart and the
[1554.8s] mind is it animated with the truths God
[1557.4s] wants us to live by. Revelation 14 6-12
[1560.9s] are one of the clearest demonstrations
[1562.9s] of the the truth God wants us to live by
[1565.3s] even today. Amen. Amen. And Isaac and
[1568.4s] Rebecca had a very beautiful um
[1571.2s] marriage. At least at the beginning we
[1573.0s] are told he loved her, he cared for her
[1575.4s] and he took her in as as a wife. There
[1578.2s] are few h a few points that are
[1580.6s] mentioned in the book of Ezekiel. I
[1582.2s] don't know if uh you were able to spot
[1584.5s] some of this that I spotted which align
[1587.1s] with Ezekiel chapter 16 um in verse um
[1591.7s] 57. My brother Rafael, would you kindly
[1593.8s] just read for us verse 57 and verse 58
[1597.6s] of Genesis uh 24?
[1601.0s] Records the following verse 57 of
[1602.6s] Genesis chapter 24. It says, "And they
[1604.9s] said, we will call the damsel and
[1607.4s] inquire at her mouth." Ah, and they
[1609.5s] called Rebecca and said unto her, "Wilt
[1611.9s] thou go with this man?" And she said, I
[1614.5s] will go. Amen. Amen. I I find it very
[1617.7s] interesting that her wishes were
[1620.3s] consulted. It was a willing marriage. It
[1623.0s] was a willing engagement. She was not
[1624.6s] forced. Yes, she was not forced. She had
[1626.2s] to make a choice. And it is the same way
[1628.7s] with the bride of Christ. God never
[1630.9s] forced the bride of Christ. The bride of
[1633.2s] Christ, Israel still needed to consent
[1635.2s] to that covenant, including your
[1637.2s] relationship with Christ. God is not
[1639.2s] forcing you. God still wants you to
[1641.6s] consent. She was never forced. Even
[1643.4s] though she was, it was an arranged
[1645.2s] marriage. She was glad to go. And then
[1647.7s] something else when she's when she's
[1649.8s] leaving, she's given a very uh beautiful
[1653.4s] blessing that she's given in verse 60 of
[1656.4s] um Genesis chapter 24.
[1659.3s] Verse 60 says, "And they blessed Rebecca
[1661.4s] and said unto her, thou art at our
[1663.4s] sister, be thou the mother of thousands
[1665.6s] of millions, and let thy seed possess
[1667.9s] the gate of those which help them."
[1669.9s] Amen. You know if you are very keen you
[1672.7s] will notice this is the same blessing
[1675.0s] that was given to Abraham as the father
[1677.4s] of the nations. He was told that your
[1680.7s] seed will possess the gates of your
[1683.6s] enemies. And Rebecca who was going to be
[1685.9s] one of the mothers of that seed. We know
[1688.9s] she was given the same blessing as
[1690.6s] though her her um her family was
[1693.2s] speaking the blessing prophetically that
[1695.4s] the same blessing of Abraham. May you
[1697.9s] indeed bear the blessing of Abraham. And
[1700.5s] this was God's intention with the church
[1702.7s] that they are going to possess the gates
[1705.4s] of their enemies. And the enemy is um
[1707.8s] the the the those who hate the children
[1710.1s] of God, those are the sinners and
[1711.8s] especially the devil himself that they
[1714.0s] would have victory over sin. But the
[1716.2s] question is did the church remain pure?
[1718.3s] When God called the church in the book
[1720.2s] of Ezekiel chapter 16, did the church
[1723.4s] remain pure? You know in Revelation
[1725.9s] chapter 17 another imagery is introduced
[1729.2s] and I want us to I want you my brother
[1731.4s] Rafael to dive into this. God calls the
[1734.1s] church in the book of uh Ezekiel and
[1736.6s] then they make a covenant but what
[1738.8s] happened to the church? What happened to
[1740.6s] the church and what does what is the
[1743.0s] imagery used in Revelation chapter 17?
[1745.6s] Indeed. Uh um now we transition to the
[1749.7s] aspect where um Ezekiel continues in
[1753.4s] verse 16 in chapter 16 rather he
[1755.6s] continues and he says that sometimes
[1757.8s] almost something akin to what happened
[1759.8s] to Lucifer. Yes. because of pride of her
[1762.9s] beauty of things which God is the one
[1765.4s] who equipped her with. You know it's
[1767.6s] interesting sometimes how the blessings
[1769.5s] of God if we introspect rather than give
[1773.1s] him glory. If we become self-centered
[1775.6s] because of the things that God has given
[1777.0s] us then the blessings that God has given
[1779.3s] us can turn out to be curses. You see
[1781.2s] the devil in if you read in Ezekiel
[1783.1s] chapter 28 and in Isaiah 14 we're told
[1785.8s] that he was full of beauty and wisdom
[1788.1s] until iniquity was found in you by
[1790.6s] virtue of of pride you know of the way
[1793.1s] he had been made. Similarly, this woman
[1795.5s] being a masterpiece of God, being uh a
[1798.5s] masterpiece of of of God by creation and
[1801.4s] also God coming to her rescue and
[1803.6s] redeeming her and pouring his blessings
[1805.6s] upon her. Soon enough because of her
[1808.2s] beauty, she starts whoring. You know,
[1810.8s] she becomes a harot. She goes, she
[1813.0s] forgets the one who has been sustaining
[1815.1s] her, the one who was dressed, the one
[1816.6s] who has fed her until now the nations
[1818.6s] are looking at her and she's attractive,
[1820.5s] you know, and then she goes out out and
[1823.4s] um and um and and interacts with these
[1825.4s] nations. And so in speaking to us about
[1827.7s] this aspect, we are we called to
[1829.8s] consider Hosea's hallowed wife. Hosea's
[1832.7s] hallowed wife. Uh we are told about a
[1836.2s] gentleman called Hosea who was a
[1837.8s] prophet, you know, and and in in a in a
[1841.3s] in a in a in a way God is trying to help
[1844.0s] us understand our spiritual situation
[1846.7s] through once again the vehicle that is
[1850.1s] marriage. You know, I think one of the
[1852.0s] things that we almost cross-culturally
[1855.4s] we find in almost all cultures is this
[1857.8s] institution called marriage. you know
[1859.6s] whether the number of wives may differ
[1862.4s] uh but nonetheless its sanctity and and
[1865.0s] and and and and the way it is honored in
[1867.5s] society across many cultures is the
[1869.5s] same. And so God uses the analogy of
[1871.3s] marriage to enable us to understand his
[1873.9s] relationship with us. And so he speaks
[1876.5s] and he tells Hosea a prophet to go and
[1879.7s] marry a hallot not by accident. You
[1882.6s] know, sometimes maybe you marry people
[1884.2s] with colorful pasts. You know, maybe
[1886.2s] she'll tell you later on and then you
[1888.2s] maybe you in your mind you wonder, okay,
[1889.7s] did I make a mistake? But then God God
[1891.8s] saves. You know, we understand God
[1893.2s] saves. All saints were once sinners. But
[1895.7s] in this particular case, this was a
[1898.3s] hallowot in this in the active of
[1900.6s] present continuous tense, not past. You
[1903.4s] know, like God is telling him, go pursue
[1906.6s] this lady who is a hallowed on purpose.
[1909.8s] And so in essence, God is trying to show
[1912.2s] us from his own perspective using
[1916.2s] um a a vehicle that we can understand
[1918.6s] the pain of human sin and rebellion.
[1921.4s] He's trying to show us that God had
[1923.6s] lovingly chosen a wife, Israel, and he
[1926.6s] had repeatedly cheated on him. And yet,
[1929.6s] astonishingly enough, the
[1931.9s] wonderful story of grace and of love and
[1934.6s] of the gospel, he still took her back
[1936.9s] and he restores her. And so uh he tells
[1939.6s] us in the book of Hosea uh verse one
[1942.6s] chapter 1 and verse 2 as well as Hosea
[1945.2s] chapter 3 and verse one it speaks
[1947.3s] about a wife of hodoms and children of
[1950.7s] hodoms. In uh Hosea chapter 3 and verse
[1953.4s] one it it say it speaks about the love
[1956.2s] of God for Israel. Yet Israel looks
[1959.4s] after what? At other gods. And now
[1962.6s] finally in Revelation chapter 17, we're
[1965.1s] told now in contrast to the woman of
[1967.4s] Revelation 12 who is clothed with the
[1970.2s] son which is the righteousness of God.
[1972.5s] There's a woman of Revelation chapter 17
[1974.4s] and the Bible records from verse 1 and
[1976.6s] two. And there
[1978.0s] came and there came one of the seven
[1980.5s] angels which had seven vials and talked
[1982.7s] with me saying come he and I will show
[1985.2s] you unto thee the judgment of the great
[1987.8s]  that sits upon what? Many waters.
[1990.4s] In verse two, it says, "With whom the
[1992.8s] kings of the earth have committed
[1995.3s] fornication, and the inhabitants of the
[1997.1s] earth have been made drunk with the wine
[1999.7s] of her fornication." You see, speaking
[2003.6s] about Babylon, you know, to a certain
[2005.8s] extent that this bride of Christ at some
[2008.9s] point changes uh allegiances, at some
[2012.8s] point walks away from the sacred bounds
[2015.4s] of this marriage and God feels betrayed.
[2018.2s] We see a husband betrayed by his wife in
[2021.9s] a patriarchal society in a society which
[2025.0s] sort of uh in a sense um placed a man uh
[2029.6s] at the pedestal. This was one of the
[2032.2s] heights of betrayal and one of the
[2034.1s] greatest pains even in our society
[2035.4s] today. Sad to say uh it's hypocritical
[2038.2s] but more often than not the the
[2040.6s] discretions of a man society tends to
[2043.7s] sort of understand them. Yes. to cover
[2045.8s] them. But the discretions of a wife are
[2048.2s] looked down upon. You know, a wife who
[2050.6s] moves away from her marriage, a wife who
[2053.5s] is purposefully ruining her home.
[2055.9s] Society looks down upon this. Yet it is
[2058.3s] the same analogy that God uses to teach
[2061.0s] us about how when we are unfaithful to
[2064.2s] him, we are going a whoring after other
[2067.0s] nations. Yes. Very very interesting. And
[2071.0s] I I I think one of the things that uh um
[2074.0s] mentioned here is how amazing that God
[2077.9s] still desires this church. Even when
[2080.5s] he's in hallow tree, he still wants to
[2082.7s] save this church. But before we dive
[2084.6s] into it, father, maybe you can give us
[2086.3s] practically how historically the church
[2089.4s] descended into hallow tree. Yes. So
[2091.9s] historically very quickly um uh uh uh
[2094.9s] the church just as Israel the church was
[2097.9s] in a state of of persecution and unlike
[2102.2s] Israel the church does not have armies.
[2104.2s] So when when God's people were being
[2106.5s] persecuted for they had a very strange
[2108.6s] religion. They were living in a time
[2110.9s] when when you know um uh the Roman
[2113.7s] religion had so many gods Jupiter, Juno,
[2117.8s] um Mava etc etc. So many strange gods.
[2121.4s] uh h at that time uh e eh the church was
[2125.0s] in a state where they were called
[2126.9s] atheists and superstitious because they
[2129.6s] worshiped one single god contrary to the
[2133.1s] religion of Rome and so they were
[2135.3s] offending number one the people because
[2137.8s] they were so different from the people
[2139.7s] and and and refused to worship their
[2141.6s] systems they were offending even the
[2143.4s] economic systems you know in the book of
[2144.9s] acts I think it is chapter 17 I'm not
[2146.7s] sure when there was um a silver smith
[2149.0s] who used to make idols who realized that
[2151.0s] as soon as people um convert to
[2153.2s] Christianity, they stop buying his
[2154.7s] idols. His business goes down, you know.
[2156.9s] So, so they're offending the economy of
[2158.9s] that time, they're offending the priests
[2160.6s] and they are offending unfortunately,
[2162.5s] most importantly, the emperor who was
[2164.2s] considered in a sense uh almost the
[2166.6s] chief son of the gods or even the god
[2168.4s] himself, a small god himself. And so at
[2171.4s] that time, Christianity was so opposed
[2173.4s] to that system that it had to be
[2175.4s] unfortunately uh put down. And so it was
[2178.1s] put down very in a very bloody fashion.
[2180.6s] uh in uh in some parts when it was very
[2182.7s] small it was not that severe but around
[2185.6s] the 270s and the 300s that is when the
[2189.7s] persecution became extremely extremely
[2191.9s] severe. There was in fact one particular
[2193.8s] emperor whose name was the ecclesian who
[2196.0s] enacted a decree that would wipe out all
[2198.2s] Christians, remove Christians from all
[2200.5s] positions of authority being magistrates
[2202.7s] and the like removed Christians from all
[2204.9s] positions. Even their temples were taken
[2206.5s] from them and they were to be killed.
[2208.3s] Basically Christianity was going to be
[2209.8s] wiped out. And this decree lasted for a
[2212.2s] whole period of 10 years up until a
[2214.3s] particular emperor came up who felt that
[2217.0s] it was expedient for him to change his
[2219.5s] tactics because there was a huge war in
[2222.0s] Rome. Various people were vying for that
[2223.8s] particular throne. And each of those um
[2226.9s] h would be emperors had an idea of how
[2229.5s] he would unify. Some emperors were
[2231.4s] thinking they would go really hard on
[2233.4s] the Roman religion and return it to its
[2235.8s] peak and utterly destroy Christianity.
[2238.2s] But then there was one called
[2239.4s] Constantine who felt that the best way
[2241.7s] would be a political way to try and form
[2243.8s] like a diplomatic union with Christians
[2245.8s] who were united and yet sep yet almost
[2249.4s] spread all over the Roman Empire and as
[2251.4s] a result he decided to make these
[2253.1s] overtures with Christianity. He made uh
[2256.2s] first of all he he uh removed the the
[2259.5s] ban on Christianity and then the second
[2262.2s] thing he did after making Christianity a
[2264.2s] legal religion he made it the official
[2266.2s] state religion and he said that that he
[2269.1s] had received this this vision in the sky
[2271.3s] he saw like the sign of a cross etc etc
[2274.2s] and and as a result of that Christianity
[2276.2s] was you could say saved but it was saved
[2278.4s] in a way when the Christians were made
[2280.6s] an expectation that they would embrace h
[2284.6s] this amalgam this mixture of paganism as
[2287.0s] well as Christianity. So at that
[2288.9s] particular time when it looked like
[2290.1s] Christianity has been saved you could
[2291.6s] say it was a time unfortunately when
[2293.8s] Christianity reached its lowest levels
[2296.2s] very very quickly. It began to now seek
[2298.5s] after the power of the state to to
[2300.6s] resolve some of its disputes. It was
[2302.6s] having controversies for instance of the
[2304.8s] nature of God. And so there was a group
[2307.1s] of people who believed in the trinity.
[2309.4s] Others believed that Jesus was like a
[2312.0s] demigod. There was only one God. And so
[2314.7s] emperor after emperor. So Constantine
[2316.7s] for instance supported the trinity. His
[2318.9s] son Constantius was an aryan. So when
[2321.6s] Constantine was in power the
[2323.0s] trinitarians came to him and and asked
[2324.9s] for power to persecute the aryans. And
[2327.5s] then Constantius his son when he was in
[2329.4s] power the Aryan bishops came to him and
[2332.2s] and and and asked for power to persecute
[2334.6s] the trinitarians. And then when the
[2336.2s] emperor who came after him the same
[2337.6s] thing vice versa. You can see that is
[2339.4s] not how we resolve conflicts here my
[2341.0s] brother. You know when we're having a
[2342.3s] discussion of Bible of the book of
[2343.8s] Daniel and we disagree I I should not
[2345.8s] look for the power of the state the
[2347.4s] police officer to come and get you you
[2349.7s] know and and it corrupts Christianity
[2351.8s] because at that
[2353.3s] time it appears that might makes right
[2355.9s] and not a simple study of the word of
[2357.8s] God and so many other false teachings
[2360.0s] flowed into Christianity because of that
[2362.8s] unholy union between the church and the
[2365.4s] states. straight. Yes. It said the with
[2368.2s] whom the kings of the earth have
[2370.2s] committed fornication. And how is that
[2373.2s] fornication being manifest today? Now
[2375.8s] we've seen what happened then. How is it
[2378.2s] being manifest today? How is the church
[2380.4s] actually committing fornication today?
[2383.4s] Indeed. Um um as as Jaffa has rightly
[2386.6s] put it. So when the church now seeks for
[2390.0s] help beyond God, when when we as church
[2393.6s] members are not leaning on what God can
[2396.5s] do for us to help our circumstance and
[2398.6s] our situation and we go and look for
[2401.4s] human and and and uh sometimes to
[2403.9s] certain extent most human uh human
[2406.8s] solutions are actually um the the the
[2410.0s] the work the chief architect is usually
[2412.7s] the devil in the details somewhere there
[2414.6s] within the shadows hiding. And so um
[2417.5s] sometimes uh for this particular church,
[2421.0s] we see a church that moved away from
[2424.0s] faithfulness to Christ and depending on
[2426.7s] him and his righteousness and now
[2429.2s] sustaining itself as as as as as the
[2432.5s] kingdoms of the world, as the people of
[2434.6s] the world and and and it had many many
[2437.3s] things. Uh you see you see see it says
[2439.8s] uh it interacted and there was some some
[2442.1s] some some sort of tread that happened
[2444.6s] you know which means there's some things
[2446.2s] it sold and there some things it bought
[2448.2s] and we we we see that some of the things
[2450.6s] that were actually bought into
[2452.0s] Christendom which were hither to uh as
[2455.5s] long as the church was was faithful to
[2457.6s] Christ that weren't there were things
[2459.0s] such as the false Sabbath you know the
[2460.6s] worship of Sunday which was the
[2462.6s] venerable day of the sun which is a day
[2464.6s] of pagan worship where they were
[2466.1s] actually worshiping the
[2467.4s] You see, and now it becomes eventually
[2470.2s] adopted and becomes the official day of
[2472.6s] worship for Christians. Something which
[2474.8s] had never been done by those the early
[2477.0s] church, the church and the Christians
[2478.7s] who were faithful uh to God. And so the
[2482.3s] Bible continues and says many other
[2484.4s] things and uh and the lesson author says
[2486.8s] God's people wandered outside their
[2488.4s] relationship with him in order to find
[2490.2s] solutions for perceived problems. You
[2493.3s] see uh and and and in many times
[2496.5s] sometimes u um we see
[2501.6s] ultimately as you as as it's still
[2504.0s] speaking about maybe I'm going ahead a
[2506.0s] bit uh Revelation 17 we're called to
[2508.4s] consider also Revelation 18. In
[2510.2s] Revelation 18 we hear a loud voice from
[2512.8s] heaven and this voice says what? Come
[2515.4s] out to her my people. That means that
[2518.5s] God still has his people out there.
[2520.7s] Yeah, it's still the same story of
[2522.5s] Isaiah that God is still actively
[2524.7s] pursuing. You know the story of Isaiah,
[2526.9s] we're told of a woman who kept leaving a
[2529.1s] house, kept leaving Hosea. Yes. Hosea's
[2531.8s] Hosea's wife kept leaving actively
[2534.7s] multiple times. But still we see it's
[2537.8s] almost like the gospel story of of of of
[2540.2s] of um one one one poet calls God uh in
[2544.9s] in a poem writes about the hound of
[2546.8s] heaven. How uh God God is like a dog.
[2549.4s] you know hounds, blood hounds and and
[2551.4s] the way they can catch a scent and they
[2553.3s] can track you and track you and they
[2555.5s] pursue and pursue and pursue and pursue.
[2557.5s] So similarly God uh God is pursuing uh
[2561.0s] God is still pursuing his people and
[2562.9s] ultimately as as he still tells them
[2566.4s] where they have gone wrong. He still
[2568.9s] says they are still my people there and
[2571.5s] his message to us is come out of her my
[2575.4s] people. My people come out of her my
[2577.4s] people. You know today there are nations
[2579.6s] calling for the church to become one.
[2582.7s] The same way they chose the power of
[2584.6s] Constantine. Um they are also looking
[2586.6s] for the power of Constantine today.
[2588.6s] Ecumenical movements. Ecumenical
[2590.3s] movements happening today. And even here
[2592.1s] in Kenya you have seen the church
[2593.8s] seeking the power of the state to get
[2595.8s] help from the state even money sometimes
[2597.8s] unfortunately. Yes. And this is what God
[2599.9s] calls fornication corruption. But beyond
[2602.4s] that how have you also fornicated as
[2605.3s] part of the bride of Christ? Have you
[2607.2s] deviated from some of these truths? Have
[2609.1s] you been unfaithful in your walk with
[2610.8s] Christ? Christ is pursuing you and
[2613.4s] desires you to come back to him. Now,
[2616.4s] another question that I want you to uh
[2619.0s] dive into. Will this harlot continue
[2623.1s] ruling in corruption? Will this harlot
[2625.9s] continue ruling in corruption? I think
[2628.0s] you hinted at it when you read
[2629.4s] Revelation 17 verse1. But what happens
[2632.0s] to the harlot? What is the end of the
[2634.3s] hallot? What is the end of
[2636.2s] unfaithfulness whether as a Christian or
[2638.8s] even as a church system? Indeed. And uh
[2642.0s] it ask it calls us to consider um
[2646.0s] Revelation 19 verse 1 to9. And the Bible
[2649.5s] records the following from the King
[2650.6s] James version. It says, "And after these
[2652.5s] things, I heard a great voice of much
[2654.7s] people in heaven saying, Hallelujah,
[2657.9s] salvation and glory and honor and power
[2660.3s] unto the Lord our God. For true and
[2662.6s] righteous are his judgments. For he hath
[2664.9s] judged the great or the hallot,
[2667.8s] which did corrupt the earth with her
[2669.5s] fornication, and has avenged the blood
[2671.8s] of his servants at her hand. Indeed,
[2675.0s] we've seen that a woman in Bible
[2677.6s] prophecy is is is a church. And a woman
[2682.1s] who is faithful is a faithful church.
[2684.3s] But a woman who has walked away from her
[2686.2s] husband is termed as a And so
[2688.5s] when we're talking about this uh this
[2691.4s] hope of revelation, we're actually
[2693.0s] talking about it can be it can narrow
[2695.4s] down to ourselves when we're not
[2697.0s] faithful, but ultimately he's also
[2698.7s] talking about a a religio political
[2702.8s] system that is in place that was once
[2706.2s] that could once trace its roots in
[2708.9s] faithfulness to God. But ultimately
[2711.0s] somewhere along the line after
[2712.2s] Constantine came somewhere along the
[2713.8s] line after many other things came this
[2716.3s] uh this movement this once religious
[2718.3s] movement this one this movement that was
[2720.2s] once standing has has fallen aside and
[2722.6s] so it's speaking about a church a
[2724.4s] worldwide church that has sold its its
[2727.0s] theories that has sold its teachings to
[2729.4s] the whole world and the whole world has
[2731.7s] embraced it. Sad to say even some
[2733.8s] Protestant nations, some Protestant
[2735.8s] churches rather today still practice and
[2738.8s] they they um in fact the way it is put
[2741.2s] in uh Revelation 17 it's called the wine
[2743.3s] of Babylon. Some nations some some some
[2745.8s] some churches today have actually
[2748.2s] partaken of the wine of Babylon. And for
[2750.4s] this reason you are told the Bible says
[2753.4s] he did corrupt the earth with her
[2755.0s] fornication and as have and and and and
[2757.2s] and she even persecuted the saints. But
[2760.1s] the Bible says judgment will come you
[2762.7s] know and the and the saints are saying
[2764.3s] allelujah salvation and glory and honor
[2766.9s] and power for true and righteous are his
[2769.9s] judgments for heath judged the great
[2771.9s]  which did corrupt the earth with
[2774.5s] her fornication and has avenged the
[2776.8s] blood of his servants at her hand. Verse
[2779.6s] three says, "And yet again they say
[2781.1s] allelujah, and the smoke and her smoke
[2784.2s] rises up forever and ever that her her
[2788.6s] judgment, her her destruction is
[2791.8s] eternal. It's it's with finality forever
[2794.8s] and
[2795.6s] ever. Evil shall not raise up again."
[2798.8s] Amen. God will settle their accounts
[2801.1s] once and for all. Verse four verse four
[2803.1s] says and the 24 elders and the four
[2805.1s] beasts fell down and worshiped God and
[2807.0s] the and and God that sat the throne
[2809.8s] saying amen and allelujah. Verse 5 says
[2812.5s] and a voice came out of the throne
[2813.8s] saying praise our God all ye servants
[2816.0s] and ye that fear him both small and
[2818.0s] great. And the Bible continues and says
[2820.5s] there was a great voice a voice as as a
[2822.9s] great as as as a voice of a great
[2824.8s] multitude as a voice of many waters and
[2826.9s] as a voice of many thunderings and
[2828.4s] lightnings. And all of these voices are
[2830.6s] praising God saying what allelujah for
[2833.4s] the Lord God omnipotent reignth. And he
[2836.6s] continues and says, "Let us be glad and
[2838.4s] rejoice and give honor to him for the
[2840.9s] marriage of the lamb is come and his
[2843.7s] wife hath made herself ready." And in
[2846.5s] verse 8 it says, "And to her was granted
[2849.0s] that she should be arrayed in fine
[2850.6s] linen, clean and white, for the fine
[2853.8s] linen is the righteousness of the
[2856.1s] saints, which is the righteousness of
[2858.2s] Christ." And Conan says, "And he said
[2860.6s] unto me, write, blessed are they which
[2863.1s] are called unto the marriage supper of
[2864.7s] the Lamb." And he said unto me, these
[2867.8s] are the true sayings of God. Amen. Bible
[2870.9s] is telling us that the hallot will be
[2873.4s] judged. is telling us that indeed uh
[2877.3s] though it seems as if
[2880.0s] um mercy is is is
[2883.2s] is letting is is is letting people get
[2886.1s] away with a lot, a time will come in
[2888.4s] which God will say that the door of
[2891.1s] mercy will be shut. He who is righteous,
[2893.4s] let him be righteous still. He who is
[2895.1s] evil or wicked, let him remain what? Let
[2897.2s] him be wicked still. But before that
[2900.4s] comes the message of revelation 18 that
[2903.8s] God still acknowledges that they are his
[2906.2s] people there. There are his people
[2908.0s] there. One thing that will happen
[2910.3s] eventually there will be a separation.
[2912.3s] The harlot will be judged. Those who
[2913.9s] have walked away from from from from
[2916.2s] true fidelity to God and to his word.
[2919.4s] Judgment has been set aside for them.
[2921.3s] But then there are those who having
[2923.2s] deviated from a relationship with God
[2925.9s] and walked in hallow tree. But when they
[2929.6s] hear the message of revelation 18 which
[2931.9s] is the three angels messages the message
[2934.0s] of that is calling the children of God
[2936.3s] back to to him and to and and and to his
[2939.9s] righteousness and to Christ uh our
[2942.9s] savior. Then they will be now those who
[2946.1s] enter into that marriage supper of the
[2948.1s] lamb. those who enter into the wedding
[2950.7s] feast of of of of the lamb. Revelation
[2953.8s] chapter 21 also speaks uh verse 1 to4 it
[2957.1s] speaks about new Jerusalem is talked
[2959.8s] about as a bride prepared and adoned for
[2962.2s] who? For her bridegroom. And it is in
[2964.6s] the context of of the resurrection. It
[2966.6s] is the context of a new heaven and a new
[2968.6s] earth. And we are called to witness you
[2972.0s] know uh this uh this marriage this
[2974.9s] imagery that is used that is used uh
[2977.4s] here sister white writes in the book
[2979.0s] testimonies to the church volume 7 page
[2980.6s] 46 and she writes and says marriage a
[2983.2s] union for life is a symbol of the union
[2986.0s] between Christ and his church and the
[2988.6s] and that the spirit that Christ
[2989.7s] manifests towards the church is a spirit
[2991.7s] that husband and wife are to manifest
[2994.0s] towards each other. Christ suffered
[2996.4s] unimaginable pain as the human race
[2998.4s] rejected him and gave the affection that
[3000.5s] belonged to him to other gods. And yet
[3003.3s] even then he gave himself for us paying
[3006.4s] in himself for infidelities and
[3008.9s] adulteries so that if we repent and turn
[3011.8s] away from them we have the promise of
[3014.6s] eternal life. Amen. But if we do not,
[3017.7s] then Revelation 19 tells us a time is
[3020.6s] coming where the saints of God will
[3023.2s] rejoice at the persecution rather at the
[3026.0s] judgment and the destruction of the war,
[3029.7s] the or the harlot of Revelation
[3031.8s] 17. Amen. Amen. You know the Bible says
[3035.0s] that indeed offenses will come but war
[3037.7s] unto him through whom offenses through
[3039.4s] whom offenses come. that this harlot,
[3041.9s] this system that has lied to people, you
[3044.0s] will save be saved by your works. That
[3046.5s] you need to do this to be saved. That
[3048.3s] you need to come through a priest, this
[3050.6s] system will be judged, that those that
[3053.8s] system that has led people to stumble
[3056.2s] will indeed be judged. But God is saying
[3058.6s] that he wants his bride to be ready. The
[3062.2s] um Christ object lessons page 69 says
[3065.3s] that Christ is waiting with longing
[3068.0s] desire for his church to be ready. Yes,
[3071.1s] the harlot will be judged. But are you
[3073.7s] preparing yourself? Are you one of the
[3076.4s] five wise virgins? Preparing yourself,
[3079.8s] making yourself ready to meet the
[3082.5s] bridegroom. I don't know if you have
[3084.4s] final thoughts as we close this and we
[3087.1s] uh we pray. I think um my final thought
[3089.8s] is just on on how clear that description
[3093.2s] is biblically that a woman in Bible
[3096.2s] prophecy represents the church and and
[3099.5s] historically what happened to the church
[3101.1s] when the church failed to uphold its
[3103.4s] marriage vow faithfulness to Christ and
[3105.4s] to his word and and instead embrace the
[3108.1s] systems of the world. We should be very
[3110.2s] we should not look judgmentally for
[3111.8s] instance the same way we don't look
[3113.1s] judgmentally on Israel. We don't look
[3115.0s] judgmentally on on the history of of the
[3118.3s] Christian church and say, "Oh, you know,
[3120.2s] perhaps maybe if you're among them,
[3121.5s] you'd be even more quickly h to embrace
[3124.2s] idolatry." It is instead for us to to to
[3127.0s] to seek h the Lord for forgiveness, for
[3130.4s] confession. Um that God would give us a
[3133.2s] new heart and would enable us to be more
[3135.4s] faithful every single day. and in so
[3137.3s] doing now reach out to our brothers and
[3138.8s] sisters who who may inadvertently be
[3141.8s] embracing systems of worship that are
[3143.7s] not biblical but come from uh from from
[3146.7s] outside of the scriptures. Amen. Amen.
[3149.4s] My brother Rafael, kindly pray with us
[3151.4s] as we close this discussion. Let's
[3153.4s] believe and pray. Our kind loving father
[3156.3s] and master, art in heaven, we thank you
[3158.4s] and praise your name for indeed you use
[3161.4s] the known to teach us things unknown.
[3164.6s] This week we've been able to see that
[3167.1s] indeed when you gave Adam and Eve the
[3170.5s] institution of marriage in essence
[3172.6s] you're also giving them a booklet a
[3175.5s] template of the type of relationship
[3177.8s] that you would desire to have with us.
[3180.6s] Dear Lord I pray that
[3184.4s] indeed it is clear that you are
[3187.1s] faithful. Help our
[3190.0s] faithfulness. We believe dear Lord. Help
[3192.3s] our unbelief. Help us dear Lord if
[3195.3s] indeed we belong to that camp that needs
[3197.5s] to hear the message that we need to come
[3199.3s] out of her. I do not know what her may
[3202.4s] be. I don't know where we in our
[3204.6s] personal relationships may have woken
[3206.6s] may have walked outside of your will and
[3209.3s] outside of our sacred vows once we
[3212.7s] entered into this marriage relationship
[3214.4s] through baptism and when we took those
[3216.6s] vows to say indeed dear Jesus that we
[3218.6s] shall walk with you. But it is my prayer
[3220.6s] this day that you may speak to us
[3222.6s] lovingly and that you will not give up
[3224.4s] on us and that indeed when that day
[3226.6s] comes dear Lord we shall find ourselves
[3229.5s] ready and having on that the wedding
[3232.4s] garments which is your righteousness.
[3234.4s] This our most humble prayer make it our
[3236.2s] experience through your holy name we
[3238.0s] pray and believe. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[3240.6s] Thank you.