Title: Lesson 5 || The Nations: Part 2 || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: QmKPYHaQv54
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QmKPYHaQv54
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise God and happy Sabbath. Welcome to New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth Gong Avenue, Nairobi, Kenya. From wherever you're watching us from, happy Sabbath, good morning, good afternoon, good evening. Thank you for tuning in to study the Sabbath school lesson with us today. with me. I am joined by my friend and husband who will be taking us through this Bible study. I would like them to introduce themselves. My name is Enongo Rafael Yamis. I'm glad to be here. Amen. Thank you for joining us. And you, my husband. Thank you. My name is Jafet Rena. I'm happy to be here. Amen. Thank you. And my name is Jess Rono. I am excited about this lesson today. We have been studying illusions, symbols and images to help you and to actually for ourselves also to remember how to study Bible prophecy and when we see different symbols that have been illustrated in the word of God. How do we decipher them? How do we go back to the word of God to be able to understand especially what is God's message for his people in these last days as we study start this lesson which we'll be studying nations part two I would like us to begin with a word of prayer uh Jaff kindly you pray with us great let's pray heavenly father we thank you for the opportunity giving us to continue the study of nations we ask you holy spirit give us insight and understanding and that all the hearers of this uh message may may uh may be edified by this message and that you may be glorified in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. The last week uh when we considered nations part one we saw the desire of human beings in the context of the nation of Israel wanting to have kings, human kings and to choose the leadership of men rather than the leadership of God. We will be continuing with that uh same theme this week as well. But now we will go back to prominent uh nations and prominent governments and how they rule this earth to just emphasize the difference between the government of God and the government of men. Today our key text comes from the book of Psalms 46:10. Psalms 46:10. Brother Rafael, kindly read for us. A key text today from the book of Psalms 46 and:e 10 reading from the New King James version says be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. Amen. You see, God is trying to remind human beings that since the fall, human beings have desired the governance of men. But a time is coming. You know, if you're if you're probably stressed and looking at at the nations that are rising and falling and the strife of nations, God is giving a promise to his people that be still. A time is coming when I will rise up and I will rule among the nations and my kingdom and like the kingdoms of men will last for will last forever. The kingdoms of men, he says they are temporary, but mine is coming and it will last forever. Even in your own life, you might be looking at your own life and circumstances in your life and you might be wondering how come evil keeps on to continues on in my life or around me. How come the circumstances around me look like they are against me and another another ruler is around me? God is saying be still. I can assure you a time is coming when every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that I am God. I am the ruler of this world that Christ himself will indeed take up his throne and rule the nations. As we start this week, I just want to start uh by asking this question, brother Rafael. Was it God's intention for the fall to happen? Was it God's intention? You know, some people usually say, "Oh, if God knew this was going to happen, how come he didn't stop it?" Was it God's intention for the fall to happen? as we consider the Sunday part of the lesson. Indeed, I I recall a story that was uh uh published in uh the western media of a certain doctor who used to inject some drug in their patients so that they would uh have an emergency and then they would uh sort of resuscitate them and so they'd be seen like their heroes in the workplace. And then sometimes um uh once in a while his u this show of bravado wenti and a few patients died and and when they and when they they they investigated they realized he was inducing this medical emergencies. And so the question we ask ourselves, yes, is is this is this what God was doing in creating man in knowing that man would would fall? Would God induce a crisis so that he comes forward and he's seen as being powerful and able? But the truth of the matter is it isn't. It says that God gave God made man and he made man in his image in that he gave him autonomy and the ability and the powers to think and to make decisions for himself. Man was not a machine uh he was not simply uh some sort of automation you know but man was made in the image of God with free will and choice and um as a result of that God gives guidelines. Wherever there is free will, there must be guidelines, guiding principles. And and and here is where now we find ourselves in the first bit of uh of of of the lesson. And it's talking about the very first commandment. And we find it in the book of Genesis chapter 2. In Genesis chapter 2, uh verse 16, after the creation, uh of of man and uh the garden of Eden and man, man has been placed there. The Bible records in verse 16, "And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, "Of every tree of the garden, thou mayest freely eat." Verse 17 says, "But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. For in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die." And so we see, God gives man free will, and he gives him an environment in which this free will is to be exercised. He has the option to eat or not to eat. That was the great question. And so we see in essence God tells him that this is the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And so we ask ourselves this question and indeed Mr. White writes in the book Patriarchs and Prophets page 50 and 51 and except it says that the holy pair were not only children under the divine fatherly care of God but they were students receiving instruction from the all wise creator. The mysteries of the visible universe, the wondrous works of whom of he whom is perfect in his knowledge were afforded them as an exhaustless source of instruction and delight. And so Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden were also students. There was they were learning. There were many things that were happening to them. And in this school there was only this one commandment, this one rule not to eat from this tree. And then we see uh what was the effect of breaking this prohibition. In essence, we see um they were not commanded uh because of anything that God was withholding something from them. But rather what we see is that when eventually they broke this rule, what man knew, what man was introduced to was evil and not good. that God God's intention for us was for us to always know good and to and to and to live in a positive environment to prosper in truth and in purity and not to know what hurts what um feelings of hurt feelings of loss because after Adam ate that fruit and sin entered into this world then we see and we and we are introduced to Cain killing Abel we see and we're introduced to animals now being classified as carnivores and habivos because we see a a a paradigm shift in the world in which Adam and Eve lived in. And so we see the command not to eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil was a blessing. In keeping that commandment in obedience, there was a blessing and a and a and a preservation of of of not only the garden and its environment, but man and his relationship with his environment. and even ultimately his relationship with God. He speaks to us about the results or he speaks to us one about the character of God that he tells us the results of transgression. Similarly, it speaks to us about God who tries to protect his children. We see when the children of Israel asked for a king, in essence, they wanted to be like other nations. They wanted to be to walk away from the divine pattern that God had made for them. Whenever we want to walk away, God says this will be the consequences. Even the the tree itself was called the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. But if Adam was to look, if Adam was to study, so far they had known only good. The only thing that they did not know was evil. Similarly, God told them, "The children of Israel, when you ask for a king, he will take your sons and your daughters. He will take your lands. He will take your money. He will tax you. He will be unfair. He will he will he will show favoritism to his clansmen and to his friends and to his cronies. If you are willing to go along with this, then go ahead and have a king." And the results, the Bible records, indeed the kings of Israel became progressively more wicked and God's covenant people were led astray by these kings who also likewise um abused their power. We see for example David killing Uriah and taking his wife. This is abuse of power and he eventually even deploys Uriah to his death. You see all these things but David is an example of a good king who repented. There were other kings who came later on and led Israel in apostasy altogether. And so we see centuries of subjugation instead of freedom that was first given in Eden would created a new classroom where willing hearts would witness the contrast between the kingdoms of God of this world kingdoms led by men vi God's kingdom where it is God leading men with his commandments. Amen. And you know, you've just spoken about having the way Adam and Eve had God as their teacher. Today, people usually are asked a question. If you were to pick one man who has ever existed in the world and you want to learn from them, which great master would you want to learn from? I I don't know who would you want to learn from. Having led the rest, I would say I would like to learn from the Lord. I mean it's very interesting that God was it's very exciting to imagine you'd sit at the feet of God and be taught of him. Uh Desire of Ages actually says that Christ for him God was his teacher. He would walk in the field and God would instruct him the way he instructed Adam and Eve. Thank you so much for sharing. You've also reminded me of a few verses in in in scripture uh that come to my mind when it comes to us having a knowledge of good and evil. You know the Bible says in the book of Job chapter 28 verse 28 that to fear God is understanding and to actually to flee from evil to avoid evil that is understanding. Wisdom is fearing God and avoiding evil fleeing from evil that that is understanding. Maybe some of you have asked this question that has been asked in the lesson. How come God does not want us to discover this? How come God does not want me to discover fornication before marriage? How come God doesn't want me to discover this special knowledge? In the book of first Corinthians 14:E 20, Paul writes to the Corinthian church and he tells them this, "Brethren, be not be not children in understanding. How in malice be ye children, but in understanding be men. In understanding be men, but in evil be a child. Be a child. It is not God's desire for us to have a knowledge that does not bring us joy and happiness. And friends, you have seen from last week's lesson and from what my brother has elaborated that since the fall, men have chosen to have earthly kings that have brought them a lot of sadness, a lot of unhappiness which God did not desire. Japet, if you kindly elaborate to us now pass the nation of Israel, what other nations, what other worldly powers led this earth and what were their characteristics? How do we contrast them with the government of God? Thank you. Uh so in the Monday part as we are studying the uh the book of Daniel chapter 2, we'll actually answer that very question. Uh in Daniel chapter 2, you find a vision that God gives to Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar has a dream and a vision and it's a vision that he does not he is unable to recall. In fact, before the the explanation of the vision is given, there is a sort of small drama there that reveals the might and the glory of God versus the weakness of the systems of the world. Because once Nebuchadnezzar comes to his uh let's say the the cabinet the the top people, he asks them for help and then they say you give us the the dream and we shall give you interpretation. Obviously, he immediately sees. In fact, in the text, it says, "I know that you just want to lie. He wants to to buy time to deceive." Yeah. But then how God actually gives the vision through Daniel after much prayer uh to indicate that he truly knows the end from the beginning and can see the system of the world um in a way that you and I cannot see. Uh even before I continue, by the way, let's appreciate that Bible prophecy is not like the prophecies that we would see in the world around us. Um uh uh I think many of us for instance have access to some newspapers and occasionally I think for me it's been a while since I've viewed but the last time I I open a newspaper I remember seeing horoscopes there. You know sometimes when you read through horoscopes it's almost like every horoscope can fit you. Yeah. Every horoscope is like a sock that can fit everyone. You know that is not a prophecy. It's so generic you know. It's like um there's I know I normally bring up this story. There was normally h there was um a great oracle who uh whose advice was sought because supposedly she could see into the future. I think it was the oracle of deli. And so some Greek kings came and asked um what shall happen in the next upcoming battle? And then the oracle said a great power shall be destroyed. And so this king left thinking that's me K. He was the one who was the great power being destroyed not the one who would be the Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So but in the Bible the prophecies are not like that. They're very clear. So in the book of uh Daniel uh chapter 2:31-35, we actually find the vision. Let me read it. It's actually uh in in in by my estimation the most important prophecy in the Bible because it lays a very simple foundation from the time of Daniel until the end the system that God has has has decreed would happen. He says, "Oh, thou king sawest, and behold, a great image uh whose brightness was excellent stood before thee, and the form was terrible." And then in verse 32, we are told that it had a head of what? A head of gold. Um and then we are told that its arms were of silver, its belly and its thighs of brass. Verse 33, the legs of iron and its feet of iron and of clay. And then afterwards we see in verse 34 a stone is carried to that hand and is is cast to the feet to destroy. And guess what? Every single power from uh from from from from the top of the head up to the toe is destroyed and becomes like ash becomes like dust and is cast by the wind into oblivion. And there there are very simple lessons we can draw even before establishing um all the details because um in fact in the book of e um in verse 37 Daniel himself gives interpretation. He says you are the head of gold and then he is told after you shall come another kingdom which is obviously what no one wants to hear. You know there's no king who wants to hear that your time will end your dynasty your kingdom your dynasty everything about you will end. People want endlessness. God says no there is a there's a limit to all human authority and power. So after Nebuchadnezzar and Babylon comes the the arms of silver which is Midopasia and then afterwards the the belly of brass which is the kingdom of Greece that followed after. Uh and then afterwards came what the iron monarchy the iron empire of of Rome and afterwards Rome broke down into a mixture of iron and clay. A a a mixture of systems that were pagan and Christian. You know, if you go look at Europe, you realize that much of Europe was was almost like the children, the the descendants almost of of of of the Roman heritage. Um, all the way from from from from the UK, England all the way to Italy and even parts of Asia, Russia, but even in Russia, um, there was a time when the kings were called Zah Zhao and and Z derived from what? Caesar. So, you can see that heritage that all these powers were actually descendants of Rome. It was that breaking up of the feet into system that could never hold together truly, you know. But as the Bible says um verse 41 uh uh uh the kingdom shall be divided and they shall never mix one to the other. But what is uh you know this is a wonderful history lessons but what lessons can we learn from that? Number one, it is clear that God can see the end from the beginning. Because this prophecy given in 600 BC, it it it passed bit by bit by bit exactly as God had described it. Every power came after every other power as God had decreed. Its time passed and then another power came. Power to bring up things and to lay them down. Amen. He is in control. And he is has the ultimate power. And then secondly, we see that the God has established the end. The end is certain. Maybe following up from that I want to ask is then why does God allow it? Why does God allow evil kingdoms to rise and fall? How if he if he has the power, why does he permit it to happen? Uh it's the same reason for instance in the book of I think ex um um Genesis chapter 15, God was telling Abraham before he was going to go into Canaan, he told him the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet. And I believe it's Genesis 15:16. The iniquity of the Amorites is not yet. And that was it would take 400 years until the almost like the cup of the iniquity was full when God now sent Israel into Canaan now to to to exact his judgment upon those people because now that God decreed now the judgment is come. So for all these powers you can see that they are given time. In fact, in the book of Daniel, chapter I think it's chapter 6, you actually see that transition. It is a time when when when h the kingdom of Babylon, that head of gold, what are they doing? They have taken all of the holy vessels. They're corrupting them. They they have not learned any lessons that God has been trying to give. And and as a result, God takes the power at that night from Babylon and gives it to me. That's a small snapshot of what go God gives to kingdoms. He gives them time. He gives them an opportunity for them to to to to reveal themselves. You see? Yeah. But unfortunately, we know un you know it's like we we can see the end from the scripture. We know that all human kingdoms, all human governments will will ultimately uh fall to the affliction of human nature which is that the heart of man is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Yes. Amen. Amen. Thank you for sharing that with us. I mean Christ did prophesy and he says that even later on leave alone what happened in Midopasia or the Roman Empire or the Grecian Empire or the Babylonian Empire that even later on we'll see still see that men will still strive for the mastery men will still strive to lead. But it is comforting to know brothers and sisters that even then God is still in control. But he gives an opportunity for the children of Israel who are crying out for an earthly kings. Even though God had warned them of the consequences, God wants to reveal to them how these earthly kings shall be. After they cried and cried for many years and asked God for a king and God permitted it and God led them to have an opportunity to be led by their own Israelites until to a point where they rejected fully any direction that will come from God. The book of 2 Chronicles I believe it's uh chapter 36 that speaks of how they rejected God. They rejected all the prophets that he sent. They rejected all his messengers and God chose them chose them to send them to shall not be led by fellow Israelites, by fellow believers of Jehovah, but to be led by gentile kings. And that's how Daniel ends up in the book in the in um ends up in Babylon and receives this vision showing us that these visions I mean these kingdoms of men will not continue. Daniel chapter 7 gives us an expansion of what happens to these kingdoms. Now, not only showing us the the political movements from one kingdom to another, but the characteristics of these kingdoms, how they shall rule, how how will be how what what what what will be the rules or the or the or the wisdom or the understanding of one king versus another king, how will the king treat its people? And I want us to just stand there as we move on to the Tuesday part to break down the kingdoms of of of Daniel chapter 7. you have broken them down for us. Of course, represented um from Daniel, I mean from um from the head of gold. But I think as we move on to this, I I just want um um my brother Rafael to clarify one part. Why um what do we learn from the from the from the change of gold to silver uh silver to brass from brass to iron and from iron to I I mean from brass to iron and then iron and clay. What do we learn from that movement from those uh types of metals? Indeed, it it seems uh any any of us would be able to see that there is a significant change the quality of the material is deteriorating. It's simply telling us that the kingdoms of men in the ruler whenever man is ruling each subsequent generation is degrading one after the other. Whenever we have decided to take the reigns of of society and and and and of life and of living and we elevate humanism or uh man beyond uh the dictates of God and and we dethrone God and put their morality uh defined by human standards that subsequent generations actually decline. Indeed, people have even done studies about how societies fail. You see where when when when when when they're coming up, they have a moral backbone. They believe in God. And then when they when they are prosperous, they they reject God. And a funny thing is they say things like homosexuality start popping up. And and uh yes, sexual deviency and and and and everybody saying they are a ruler to themselves. My dress, my choice, my body, my choice, etc., etc. And eventually uh a society's whole societies come uh t tumbling down. Alexander the great an example of a young man who had conquered the then known world but yes because of his own degeneracy alcoholism he contracts a disease because his body is weakened and he dies young and his kingdom is divided. Going back uh to now a panoramic view of the world and its kingdoms. These were superpowers that were that ruled the world back then. We see from Babylon to Midopasia to to to Greece and to Rome and eventually to divided Rome. It's telling us of the progression of human societies, the progression of man being led by men, men being led by fellow men, how it degenerates until eventually the Bible records that that stone cut out without uh without without a man's hand. It's it is telling us a kingdom separate from the effects of men, from the schemes of men, from the unions of men, from the coalitions of men comes and it strikes this statue at its feet. And the Bible records it grinds it, it grinds it into dust and then a wind blows it aside like u like uh the chaff from the summer threshing flows and this stone grows into a mountain. It's telling us that brothers and sisters all these politicians all these unions that come together promising a better future the Bible paints a different p picture. In fact Bible says when they cry peace when they say peace peace destruction peace and safety destruction then suddenly destruction comes upon them. It simply tells us that our world is simply moving from bad to worse. It's simply on a steep decline. And the only true solution is Christ enthroned in the heart. And eventually when the kingdom of God, that new Jerusalem will come and righteousness shall reign supreme from corner to corner. And just like the kingdoms in Daniel chapter 2, the kingdoms in Daniel chapter 7 as well begin the same way. We start with a very powerful and mighty animal, the lion itself. And then we see we we are degrading as we go down to the bear that comes up. But I want to just read Daniel chapter 7 verse two. Daniel's uh uh writing says Daniel spen said I saw in my vision by night and behold the four winds of the heaven strove upon the great sea that these kingdoms as they rise they don't rise because one was enthroned because the people chose him. one was enthroned because or there was peace in the land and God chose and anointed a particular king. We are told that there are four great winds and we know winds in Bible prophecy I think from Jeremiah 25:31 and 32 they represent wars and strife and what does a great sea represent? The sea in Revelation 17:15 tells us that it represents many peoples that waters represent many peoples. So there's strife and war amongst the nations amongst the people for one kingdom to rise uh and from another kingdom to move forward. And we know the first kingdom is um the kingdom of uh of Babylon because we know that is the time when Daniel was living at that time when he's writing as he had told him you are that head of gold. And from Babylon came in Midopasia a weaker kingdom a kingdom led by Cyrus himself. And we know the bear was standing was raised up on one side and on the other side it was lower because the Persians were greater and actually their influence in the empire was greater than that of the mids. And then came forth the kingdom of Greece led by Alexander the Great. a very very one of one of the most interesting pieces of history that Alexander the Great immediately after his father was um was betrayed by his friend and he was raising rising up to start leading this army he moved from one part of the Persian Empire conquering that Persian Empire to the other end and he never saw the success of his reign. He never saw the success of all his wars because as he was coming back because of debauchery the alcohol that he had taken he he he contracted a fever and died. You see they they degrade over time. Someone who was so mighty someone who generals today learn from. They say Alexander was a great man died not because he was unwell died at a very young age. I think I believe of 35 years and never seen the fruit of his work. And from Alexander the Great came the Roman Empire. Did not rise into power because someone anointed them. But came into power because they ruled as the Bible tells us in um Daniel chapter 7, they ruled with iron. But in Daniel chapter 7, we are seeing something interesting that comes up. Was we were not given the details of this kingdom in Daniel chapter 2. But Daniel is given this this aspect of the kingdom. Why? He was a man of God. He was he was a follower of Jehovah. So God gives him the spiritual aspect of the rise of these kingdoms. And we see a little horn that rises up and a few characteristics that are given of this one. As we conclude in Daniel 7:8, we are told that I considered the horns, and behold, there came up among them another little horn. Before whom there were three of the first horns plucked up by the roots, and behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of man. And what do eyes represent? What do eyes represent in the Bible? Wisdom and insight. Wisdom and insight and understanding. And we are told that the wi the the little horn has the eyes of man. Meaning that it has the wisdom and the understanding of men. Not that of God. It is not ruling with the wisdom of God. It is ruling with the wisdom of men. And it speaks great things. It speaks mighty things, pompous words against Jehovah. And these are the kingdoms that rise to rule the men of this world. the men who cried for um for another king other than God ruling them. I don't know if you want to make a comment about this about how we end up now seeing a religious system rising up to make to lead um human beings not with the wisdom of of God but with the wisdom of men. And yet this is a religious system. Yes. It's just very unfortunate that um uh what should have been um you know like you would think this is almost um a return of of of of the kingdom of David or something like that. You know um a a a spiritual system that is in charge. But in truth what happened was that it was a supremely corrupt system. Jesus Christ when he was on on on earth was was superlative. He said perfectly clearly that his his power in fact we established this um uh in the last few weeks very very clearly that that his kingdom was not going to be established by power. But unfortunately this system this um religious and Christian system mingled itself with the systems of the world in a bid to gain power but in in in that bit to gain power corrupted itself fundamentally and and and and even today some people when they are seeking for an end to the problems that we see you know what my brother talked about the sexual vice and the sexual um corruptions people are thinking oh let us have the church in charge let us have the church um united with the state in dealing with these issues. Unfortunately, these systems corrupt each other as we have seen in history and unfortunately as what we will see um even in the near future. And my brother Rafael, as this religious system is rising, what does it what does it do to the people of God, to the faithful people of God? As we move on to the Wednesday part, what does it do to the people of God? and how does it manifest itself especially as is written in Revelation chapter 12. Maybe you can speak to us about that and then show us the latter kingdoms that rise up because you have spoken of the kingdoms that existed then. What are the latter kingdoms that rise up in these last days? Indeed. Um Revelation chapter 12 sort of paints um a picture that is uh consistent in that there are two groups. There are the children of God, those who obey God and then there are children of men, those who ask for kings. And then we uh then a veil is also lifted. We saw in nations one, we saw that the devil uses mediums. And so in this particular case in Revelation 12, we see a woman who is uh who is clothed with the sun. We we we touched on this a bit of this last last Sabbath, I believe. uh in in verse three we're introduced to a woman and we saw a woman is what a church in 12 is a church and this is clothed with the righteousness which is uh with the son Christ is a son of righteousness um and um and um and many other aspects this is a church the true church but then we see a dragon in verse three in verse 9 says that this great dragon that was cast out is that old serpent called who the devil and Satan that deceives the whole world he was cast out of the earth with his angels who are cast out with him. And then the Bible continues and tells us that he goes and does what? He wages war with the saints. He goes and does what? He wages war with the saints. In verse four, it says that this dragon was ready to devour the woman's child. But eventually the child was rescued. The Bible records in verse 12 in verse 13. And when the dragon saw that he was cast into the earth, he persecuted the woman. This is the church which brought forth the manchild. The manchild here is who? Is Christ. We had we had sort of discussed some of this um in um in our pre in our prior lesson. We saw u the devil through who? Herod trying to destroy Christ through when Herod gave the decree after the wise men had visited the devil tried to kill Christ at infancy. All the children under the age of three were killed when the devil tried to destroy the Messiah as he had been heralded as he had come. And so and the Bible records what happened in that story when when news of the decree by Herod came. The Bible says Joseph and Mary went where? They went to Egypt. They went to the wilderness. They went to the wilderness to the desert to seek refuge as we shall see. Is ke to say Africa. Africa. Yes. In a sense, Africa has always been where the gospel has sought refuge. Africa, even the man, the Simon the Sirenian, they say was a black man. He's always been there for Christ in his hour of need. Amen. Indeed. And so the Bible records and says um in verse 14, and the woman was given and to the woman was given to the church were given two wings as a great eagle that she might fly where? Into the wilderness. It's almost a parallel also of what Mary and Joseph did going to Egypt which was a wild place sort of like a desert a wilderness here is the connotation of a desert and into her place and there she was nourished for a time times and half a time from the face of the serpent but what is being talked about here in essence is something different. It's talking about how the Protestant church under people persecution. The Protestant church under people persecution went and sought um for a new land, a place where which was not highly inhabited, a place with with almost what they called a new earth, you know. Um and and and we shall see this expounded more intently in Revelation chapter 13. Revelation chapter 13 speaks and says uh finishing uh 15 and 16 of 12 it says um the serpent did what the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood. So there's serpent using what water and then the Bible says in verse 16 but the what happened the earth helped the woman. So we see the devil using water and the earth doing what? Helping the woman. And the earth opened her mouth and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth. And the Bible continues and says the devil was not happy with this. Now there's the use of the earth and the use of water here as a flood. Revelation 13 verse 1 and verse 11 speaks about beasts and and we established in Daniel 7 and verse 14 and verse 15 that beasts as you've rightly laid out are powers yes they are kingdoms and kings and revelation 13 says verse one and I stood John is standing upon the sand of the sea and he sees a beast rising out of what of the sea having seven heads and 10 horns and upon his horns 10 crowns upon and upon his heads the names of blasphemy. So he sees a beast that is blasphemous, a power that is blaspheming and you can only blasphem against God. This is in essence a power that is against God and think words and yes and blasphemy by by virtue of it being blasphemerous it means it has a spiritual angle to it. It has some sort of religion that is against God. is not simply secular but it is blasphemous. It means it's taking upon itself some of the prerogatives of God like forgiving sin you know like changing the day of worship like uh like like uh like putting upon itself basically the dictates uh that only setting up saints and Mary as mediators aspects of religion and it is also equally a political power. It is it has both religious uh uh political religious power. The Bible records this beast rises up and what does it do? It says in verse four, they worshiped the dragon which gave power unto the beast. So this kingdom that is also religious is sponsored by who? You know whenever we're watching football they say the UFA Champions League is proudly sponsored by an alcoholic brand. So the similarly now John is saying he saw the power that was behind you know and they said another thing that we're told a critical thing here is what worship the Bible says in verse four and they worship the dragon let me just ask yes that because it's before you I can see you're moving away from verse one what is the significance of it rising up from the sea and I was coming back to it I was going to backpedal I was going to backpedal back to it is significant in revelation 17 and:e1 15 the Bible explains itself you know here a little there a little scripture the method of studying the scripture and it tells us what waters mean in revelation 17 we're told again once again the same power described differently now we're describing its religious aspect and it's described as we looked at in nations chapter one as a woman who has walked away from her marriage a prostitute a and it says this woman was doing what? On many on many waters on many waters. But now in verse 15, we are be it is explained to us what these many waters are. It says the waters which thou sest where they seated are what? Peoples, multitudes, nations and tongues. So the Bible when it speaks about a beast rising up of the water, it's speaking about powers emerging from regions that are densely populated from an area where there are people, there are multitudes, there are tongues and nations. And by contrast, we'll see in Revelation 11, there is another beast that is appearing now. And this beast in Revelation rather revelation 13:1, it says this beast now is appearing out of what? The earth. And so there's that contrast of the earth. And the Bible says this beast is also compared. We're told and he had two horns like what? Like a lamb. Like a lamb. But eventually started speaking what? Like a dragon. Like a dragon. And so if the sea the sea in essence is land that has water. Yes. True. Pretty much. Yes. Pretty much. Under the sea you'll find you find land you find land there. Uh and so um event uh eventually there's now a kingdom that is coming out of the earth. In essence, a place where there is no water, a place that is not densely populated. We've seen the waters are symbolic in Revelation 17 and:e 15 of multitudes, nations, and people. And so we see in Revelation chapter 13 and 11, a second kingdom that rises up and it's lamblike. And we see connecting these two in Revelation 12 verse 15 and 16 from verse 14 15 and 16 we see the church fleeing into the wilderness and we saw because of the persecution of the dark ages there were those Christians who fled from Europe and went the ship called the Mayflower and they went and found after Christopher Columbus went and found non-Europeans in America because there were people there. Yes. He found an Europeans in America and he found a land that had opportunity, a land that was not wellu that was not densely populated. And this news went uh went back uh to the motherland uh to Europe and eventually Christians who were running away from papal persecution. They went into this wilderness, this new earth, this new this new uh uh they called this land America, you know, and and when they went there now, they established uh colonies and and and and governments. That's why you find a place called New York because the original New York is in England, there's New Hampshire, uh etc., etc., New Jersey, because they were remembering where they came from. And so they established this place in essence a fulfillment of the commandment a fulfillment of the prophecy that indeed the earth came and aided the woman. This this place this this land that was that was that wasn't that wasn't hadn't been explored uh but it still had inhabitants. It came and America as a nation rose up and the Bible says it was compared as a lamp meaning uh show telling speaking to us about the Protestant the Christian foundations how America started as a land of the free even in its constitution uh giving people religious freedom uh its amendments you know freedom to freedom of speech freedom of movement all these all these things which were being curtailed by the people by the people powers back then. Yes. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for elaborating Revelation chapter 13 and to make it clear that the land does represent a land that um is u less dense and the sea represents a place that is very densely populated with many peoples and a multitude and tongues and this nation that rises up in Revelation 13 starts like a lamblike beast as you have said but revelation 13:1 tells us that it is going to eventually speak like the dragon the dragon you spoke of that had blasphemers was maybe you can um talk to us about this. It seems um the the church has found a refuge in a land that looks like they running away from persecution but this land and nation that they have gone to will eventually speak like the d like the dragon we have heard about. What is the remedy? What is the remedy um of the church? What is the remedy for this land and for this sea? Thank you so much. Um so uh in the Thursday part as we're discussing professor again we actually find an answer to that uh question. Uh all of those in fact or rather a very large number of those Protestants Baptist and so forth who had fled um the US sorry the uh uh England and Europe coming to the US. What happened? Unfortunately as we saw the h it it has lamp icons. The lamp in the book of revelation we saw um I think maybe two two lessons before the lamb is universally a symbol of who of Christ of Jesus Christ. So it had it it almost had the appearance of being Christian but eventually speaks like a dragon. Why? Because these individuals many of these Christians once they got to America they forgot the reason why they had forsaken uh h the land of their fathers um all of a sudden they began to act like the the people they had escaped from. How unfortunate. Exactly. They began to establish religion um in the US and force people and force their consciences, force people to worship in a way that is contrary to their own consciences. So for instance, there was a group of um uh Christians called Anabaptists who believed in h baptizing again which is what anabaptists means. uh uh so then when one of the Christians who was doing that going to baptize somebody who was already baptized let's say at um as a child you know uh again into the new faith of Jesus Christ or something like that some of those people were even drowned because of that because it was contrary to religious principle um there was even an establishment of tithing um uh by law so you know like tithing would come out like tax you know and all of a sudden the religious principles which you would think would be nurtured by a heart of affection. Those princip they're being forced out of the individual and that always breeds the same hypocrisy that they had escaped in in Europe, they end up unfortunately beginning to establish in the US. So the same spirit of persecution because of religious beliefs continues on now in this new land. Yes. And now it's in this land you actually find uh this message that is preached of Revelation chapter 10 reading verse 1 to 11. But I would like to focus on verse two. There is a great angel, a great and mighty angel who has a very interesting description. We are told that he's uh there was a rainbow on his head. His face is like the sun. His feet are like pillars of fire. Uh I urge you to go and study Revelation chapter one. You actually find who that angel is. Very interesting. It is almost certainly if not certainly none other than Jesus Christ. So um he has in his hand a little book open and he sets his right foot on the sea and his left foot on the earth. And you can see right there the symbols of what? The earth and the sea. So it's actually at a time when this message that he's supposed to give, he's giving to um John because he will tell John later to eat this small book. It's actually a message that God wants to go um throughout to both the earth and the sea to all over to both the old and the new world to the world that is populated uh Europe and the like to the world that is less populated. And and and what is this message? What is this small book? You actually find uh if you do a simple study of all the symbols that are found there, you find that the same book is described in the book of Daniel chapter 12. From verse four onward, you find that there's a book that you stole. Shut up the book up until the time of the end. And then in Revelation 10, we are told that the book is opened. You can now eat the book. And then what happens when John eats the book? We are told um verse 9, I went unto the angel and said, "Give me the book." And he said, "Take it and eat it up and it shall make your belly bitter, but it shall be in your mouth sweet as honey." And when I took the book, a little book out of the angel's hand, I ate it up and it was in my mouth sweet as honey. And as soon as I had eaten it, it had made my belly bitter. So what was that? He ate this message that is found in the book of Daniel. Again, take time to search through all the book of Daniel. You ask yourself, what was sealed in the book of Daniel? We saw Daniel 2 was open. We understand what those kingdoms are. that was understood long even within the text. Daniel 7, we understand what is present there. Daniel 8, there there are parts of a message that is given and there's a special prophecy that we were told is sealed. We looked at it in the first week. Exactly. And that prophecy of the e of the mornings and evenings, the 2,300 day prophecy that talks of the cleansing of the sanctuary, it is sealed. That message is the message that is given to the to the earth and the sea. And what is that message? the message that the earth shall be cleansed because at that time people thought that the sanctuary was the earth. So this message that the sanctuary is being cleansed is a message that the earth is being cleansed. And so people go forth to preach that Jesus Christ is coming. Because if you think about it, when is it that the earth is cleansed? It is at the second coming of Jesus Christ. And what happens? Even the Bible itself said that when they eat the book, what will happen? It will be sweet in the mouth but then beat in the belly. But then they told you must prophesy again. And and how does that play out in history that they eat the message Jesus Christ is coming. It's so soon, you know, and they with great power and strength preach this message. It is a sweet message, but then the bitterness comes. Why? Because they realize that they misunderstood that prophecy that the sanctuary being cleansed was something else entirely. But then now God says, "You must prophesy again." And that is the message that God gave especially to this church that arose out of that great disappointment out of the bitterness of the belly which is that this message that is to go to nations kingdoms tongues and people uh we are told verse 11 of Daniel chap revelation chapter 10 you must prophesy again before peoples nations tongues and kings is the very same message we are told in revelation chapter 14 that is that everlasting gospel that is going to the same nations people tongues and kings that message of of Christ coming soon. Get ready. Get ready. Get ready. Fear God and give him glory. The hour of his judgment is come. Is come. Thank you so much. Um and you we have gone all the way from the Garden of Eden up to the establishment of the 7th Day Adventist Church in 1844. And God giving the 7th Day Adventist Church one mission. Prophesy again. Go out. We we see that um um angel in Revelation chapter 14 um flying out swiftly and going out and preaching the everlasting gospel to all the world. I'd want us to close here, but I want us to just um um read one text um in the book of I think it is in Ezekiel if I remember very correctly. Ezekiel just open it right now that says that God will overturn overturn. This is Ezekiel chapter 21. I'm reading verse 27. I will overturn, overturn, overturn it. Many kingdoms will be overturned and it shall be no more. All these kingdoms we have read about, they will be no more. Even those ones that are said, we will make this nation great again. He will overturn them and it shall be no more until he come. Whose right it is? And who is that? Christ Jesus. and I will give it to him. God is overturning many nations. There are nations today they're saying we want to be the superpower. We want to rise up again. We want to be great again. God says I will overturn and I'll overturn them and overturn them until whose right it is. Christ who died for this world until he takes the reigns. I pray that you first give him the leadership of your own heart so that when he comes to reign on these nations, you will be his subject. May God bless you. Thank you for studying with us today. I'd want to ask um my um husband Jaffet kindly pray with us. Thank you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for having taken us through this um study, this study of uh nations. This uh it is a closing study that uh we began last week. We ask that your holy spirit may impress upon our hearts all the wonderful lessons that we have learned over the course of this uh review in Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[8.0s] Praise God and happy Sabbath. Welcome to
[10.9s] New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth
[13.4s] Gong Avenue, Nairobi, Kenya. From
[15.8s] wherever you're watching us from, happy
[18.0s] Sabbath, good morning, good afternoon,
[21.1s] good evening. Thank you for tuning in to
[24.5s] study the Sabbath school lesson with us
[27.4s] today. with me. I am joined by my friend
[31.6s] and husband who will be taking us
[33.8s] through this Bible study. I would like
[35.8s] them to introduce themselves. My name is
[38.4s] Enongo Rafael Yamis. I'm glad to be
[40.4s] here. Amen. Thank you for joining us.
[42.7s] And you, my husband. Thank you. My name
[44.2s] is Jafet Rena. I'm happy to be here.
[46.6s] Amen. Thank you. And my name is Jess
[49.2s] Rono. I am excited about this lesson
[52.6s] today. We have been studying illusions,
[55.6s] symbols and images to help you and to
[59.7s] actually for ourselves also to remember
[62.2s] how to study Bible prophecy and when we
[65.0s] see different symbols that have been
[67.4s] illustrated in the word of God. How do
[69.4s] we decipher them? How do we go back to
[71.6s] the word of God to be able to understand
[73.6s] especially what is God's message for his
[76.5s] people in these last days as we study
[79.5s] start this lesson which we'll be
[81.2s] studying nations part two I would like
[83.6s] us to begin with a word of prayer uh
[85.9s] Jaff kindly you pray with us great let's
[88.7s] pray heavenly father we thank you for
[91.0s] the opportunity giving us to continue
[92.7s] the study of nations we ask you holy
[95.0s] spirit give us insight and understanding
[97.0s] and that all the hearers of this uh
[99.0s] message may may uh may be edified by
[101.8s] this message and that you may be
[103.0s] glorified in Jesus name I pray. Amen.
[106.6s] Amen. The last week uh when we
[109.4s] considered nations part one we saw the
[112.8s] desire of human beings in the context of
[115.8s] the nation of Israel wanting to have
[119.3s] kings, human kings and to choose the
[122.5s] leadership of men rather than the
[124.5s] leadership of God. We will be continuing
[126.9s] with that uh same theme this week as
[129.8s] well. But now we will go back to
[132.4s] prominent uh nations and prominent
[135.0s] governments and how they rule this earth
[137.1s] to just emphasize the difference between
[139.9s] the government of God and the government
[142.3s] of men. Today our key text comes from
[145.2s] the book of Psalms
[147.2s] 46:10. Psalms 46:10. Brother Rafael,
[151.1s] kindly read for us. A key text today
[154.1s] from the book of Psalms 46 and:e 10
[156.7s] reading from the New King James version
[158.3s] says be still and know that I am God. I
[162.4s] will be exalted among the nations. I
[165.0s] will be exalted in the earth. Amen. You
[168.2s] see, God is trying to remind human
[170.5s] beings that since the fall, human beings
[173.7s] have desired the governance of men. But
[177.6s] a time is coming. You know, if you're if
[179.8s] you're probably stressed and looking at
[181.8s] at the nations that are rising and
[184.1s] falling and the strife of nations, God
[186.5s] is giving a promise to his people that
[189.1s] be still. A time is coming when I will
[192.3s] rise up and I will rule among the
[194.7s] nations and my kingdom and like the
[197.0s] kingdoms of men will last for will last
[199.8s] forever. The kingdoms of men, he says
[201.9s] they are temporary, but mine is coming
[205.0s] and it will last forever. Even in your
[207.3s] own life, you might be looking at your
[209.2s] own life and circumstances in your life
[211.0s] and you might be wondering how come evil
[213.4s] keeps on to continues on in my life or
[216.1s] around me. How come the circumstances
[218.2s] around me look like they are against me
[220.2s] and another another ruler is around me?
[223.7s] God is saying be still. I can assure you
[226.8s] a time is coming when every knee will
[230.0s] bow and every tongue will confess that I
[234.1s] am God. I am the ruler of this world
[237.2s] that Christ himself will indeed take up
[240.1s] his throne and rule the nations. As we
[243.6s] start this week, I just want to start uh
[246.5s] by asking this question, brother Rafael.
[249.4s] Was it God's intention for the fall to
[252.4s] happen? Was it God's intention? You
[254.2s] know, some people usually say, "Oh, if
[256.4s] God knew this was going to happen, how
[258.2s] come he didn't stop it?" Was it God's
[260.4s] intention for the fall to happen? as we
[263.5s] consider the Sunday part of the lesson.
[266.2s] Indeed, I I recall a story that was uh
[269.4s] uh published in uh the western media of
[272.0s] a certain doctor who used to
[275.1s] inject some drug in their patients so
[277.8s] that they would uh have an emergency and
[281.5s] then they would uh sort of resuscitate
[283.8s] them and so they'd be seen like their
[285.5s] heroes in the workplace. And then
[287.7s] sometimes um uh once in a while his u
[291.8s] this show of bravado wenti and a few
[296.2s] patients died and and when they and when
[297.9s] they they they investigated they
[299.8s] realized he was inducing this medical
[302.6s] emergencies. And so the question we ask
[305.1s] ourselves, yes, is is this is this what
[308.5s] God was doing in creating man in knowing
[312.0s] that man would would fall? Would God
[314.6s] induce a crisis so that he comes forward
[317.7s] and he's seen as being powerful and
[320.1s] able? But the truth of the matter is it
[322.4s] isn't.
[323.4s] It says that God gave God made man and
[326.8s] he made man in his image in that he gave
[329.0s] him autonomy and the ability and the
[331.3s] powers to think and to make decisions
[333.6s] for himself. Man was not a machine
[337.4s] uh he was not simply uh some sort of
[340.0s] automation you know but man was made in
[342.6s] the image of God with free will and
[344.9s] choice and um as a result of that God
[348.2s] gives guidelines. Wherever there is free
[350.4s] will, there must be guidelines, guiding
[352.8s] principles. And and and here is where
[355.4s] now we find ourselves in the first bit
[358.3s] of uh of of of the lesson. And it's
[361.0s] talking about the very first
[362.3s] commandment. And we find it in the book
[364.2s] of Genesis chapter 2. In Genesis chapter
[368.1s] 2, uh verse 16, after the creation, uh
[373.3s] of of man and uh the garden of Eden and
[376.0s] man, man has been placed there. The
[377.5s] Bible records in verse 16, "And the Lord
[379.8s] God commanded the man, saying, "Of every
[383.0s] tree of the garden, thou mayest freely
[386.1s] eat." Verse 17 says, "But of the tree of
[389.3s] the knowledge of good and evil, thou
[391.8s] shalt not eat of it. For in the day that
[394.1s] thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely
[397.4s] die." And so we see, God gives man free
[401.2s] will, and he gives him an environment in
[403.8s] which this free will is to be exercised.
[406.4s] He has the option to eat or not to eat.
[409.4s] That was the great question. And so we
[412.1s] see in essence God tells him that this
[414.9s] is the fruit of the tree of knowledge of
[417.8s] good and evil. And so we ask ourselves
[420.6s] this question and indeed Mr. White
[423.1s] writes in the book Patriarchs and
[424.3s] Prophets page 50 and 51 and except it
[428.3s] says that the holy pair were not only
[430.9s] children under the divine fatherly care
[433.4s] of God but they were students receiving
[436.6s] instruction from the all wise creator.
[440.2s] The mysteries of the visible universe,
[442.6s] the wondrous works of whom of he whom is
[445.4s] perfect in his knowledge were afforded
[448.0s] them as an exhaustless source of
[451.0s] instruction and delight. And so Adam and
[454.3s] Eve in the garden of Eden were also
[456.6s] students. There was they were learning.
[458.1s] There were many things that were
[459.6s] happening to them. And in this school
[463.7s] there was only this one commandment,
[466.2s] this one rule not to eat from this tree.
[469.2s] And then we see uh what was the effect
[472.0s] of breaking this prohibition. In
[474.1s] essence, we see um they were not
[476.8s] commanded uh because of anything that
[479.8s] God was withholding something from them.
[482.1s] But rather what we see is that when
[484.7s] eventually they broke this rule, what
[487.3s] man knew, what man was introduced to was
[490.1s] evil and not good. that God God's
[493.0s] intention for us was for us to always
[495.2s] know good and to and to and to live in a
[497.8s] positive environment to prosper in truth
[501.0s] and in purity and not to know what hurts
[504.2s] what um feelings of hurt feelings of
[506.9s] loss because after Adam ate that fruit
[509.8s] and sin entered into this world then we
[512.3s] see and we and we are introduced to Cain
[515.5s] killing Abel we see and we're introduced
[518.0s] to animals now being classified as
[520.6s] carnivores and habivos because we see a
[523.4s] a a paradigm shift in the world in which
[526.6s] Adam and Eve lived in. And so we see the
[530.0s] command not to eat from the tree of
[532.2s] knowledge of good and evil was a
[535.7s] blessing. In keeping that commandment in
[538.8s] obedience, there was a blessing and a
[541.5s] and a and a preservation of of of not
[544.9s] only the garden and its environment, but
[547.4s] man and his relationship with his
[549.4s] environment. and even ultimately his
[551.8s] relationship with God. He speaks to us
[554.8s] about the results or he speaks to us one
[558.9s] about the character of God that he tells
[561.2s] us the results of transgression.
[564.6s] Similarly, it speaks to us about God who
[567.3s] tries to protect his children. We see
[569.8s] when the children of
[571.2s] Israel asked for a king, in essence,
[574.0s] they wanted to be like other nations.
[575.8s] They wanted to be to walk away from the
[578.8s] divine pattern that God had made for
[581.0s] them. Whenever we want to walk away, God
[584.2s] says this will be the consequences. Even
[587.1s] the the tree itself was called the tree
[589.4s] of the knowledge of good and evil. But
[591.9s] if Adam was to look, if Adam was to
[594.1s] study, so far they had known only good.
[597.0s] The only thing that they did not know
[598.5s] was evil. Similarly, God told them, "The
[602.1s] children of Israel, when you ask for a
[604.8s] king, he will take your sons and your
[607.1s] daughters. He will take your lands. He
[609.3s] will take your money. He will tax you.
[611.1s] He will be unfair. He will he will he
[613.5s] will show favoritism to his clansmen and
[616.0s] to his friends and to his cronies. If
[618.9s] you are willing to go along with this,
[620.7s] then go ahead and have a king."
[623.6s] And the results, the Bible records,
[626.2s] indeed the kings of Israel became
[628.3s] progressively more wicked and God's
[630.7s] covenant people were led astray by these
[633.0s] kings who also likewise
[636.7s] um abused their power. We see for
[639.4s] example David killing Uriah and taking
[641.6s] his wife. This is abuse of power and he
[645.6s] eventually even deploys Uriah to his
[647.7s] death. You see all these things but
[649.9s] David is an example of a good king who
[651.8s] repented. There were other kings who
[653.6s] came later on and led Israel in apostasy
[656.8s] altogether. And so we see centuries of
[659.5s] subjugation instead of freedom that was
[662.0s] first given in Eden would created a new
[665.4s] classroom where willing hearts would
[667.8s] witness the contrast between the
[670.2s] kingdoms of God of this world kingdoms
[673.5s] led by men vi God's kingdom where it is
[677.6s] God leading men with his commandments.
[680.6s] Amen. And you know, you've just spoken
[681.9s] about having the way Adam and Eve had
[685.5s] God as their teacher. Today, people
[687.8s] usually are asked a question. If you
[689.4s] were to pick one man who has ever
[691.4s] existed in the world and you want to
[693.2s] learn from them, which great master
[695.4s] would you want to learn from? I I don't
[697.4s] know who would you want to learn from.
[700.0s] Having led the rest, I would say I would
[702.2s] like to learn from the Lord. I mean it's
[703.9s] very interesting that God was it's very
[707.0s] exciting to imagine you'd sit at the
[708.7s] feet of God and be taught of him. Uh
[711.5s] Desire of Ages actually says that Christ
[714.6s] for him God was his teacher. He would
[717.1s] walk in the field and God would instruct
[719.1s] him the way he instructed Adam and Eve.
[721.8s] Thank you so much for sharing. You've
[724.1s] also reminded me of a few verses in in
[725.9s] in scripture uh that come to my mind
[729.1s] when it comes to us having a knowledge
[731.4s] of good and evil. You know the Bible
[733.5s] says in the book of Job chapter 28 verse
[736.5s] 28 that to fear God is understanding and
[740.4s] to actually to flee from evil to avoid
[743.1s] evil that is understanding. Wisdom is
[746.0s] fearing God and avoiding evil fleeing
[749.4s] from evil that that is understanding.
[752.9s] Maybe some of you have asked this
[754.4s] question that has been asked in the
[755.8s] lesson. How come God does not want us to
[757.6s] discover this? How come God does not
[759.7s] want me to discover fornication before
[762.3s] marriage? How come God doesn't want me
[764.1s] to discover this special knowledge? In
[766.9s] the book of first Corinthians 14:E 20,
[770.7s] Paul writes to the Corinthian church and
[773.0s] he tells them this, "Brethren, be not be
[777.1s] not children in understanding. How in
[781.6s] malice be ye children, but in
[785.6s] understanding be men. In understanding
[788.8s] be men, but in evil be a child. Be a
[792.4s] child. It is not God's desire for us to
[794.7s] have a knowledge that does not bring us
[797.1s] joy and happiness. And friends, you have
[800.1s] seen from last week's lesson and from
[802.2s] what my brother has elaborated that
[804.7s] since the fall, men have chosen to have
[808.4s] earthly kings that have brought them a
[810.9s] lot of sadness, a lot of unhappiness
[813.4s] which God did not desire. Japet, if you
[816.3s] kindly elaborate to us now pass the
[819.4s] nation of Israel, what other nations,
[821.8s] what other worldly powers led this earth
[824.4s] and what were their characteristics? How
[826.2s] do we contrast them with the government
[828.2s] of God? Thank you. Uh so in the Monday
[831.0s] part as we are studying the uh the book
[833.1s] of Daniel chapter 2, we'll actually
[835.0s] answer that very question. Uh in Daniel
[837.6s] chapter 2, you find a vision that God
[840.2s] gives to Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar
[843.0s] has a dream and a vision and it's a
[844.7s] vision that he does not he is unable to
[847.1s] recall. In fact, before the the
[850.0s] explanation of the vision is given,
[851.8s] there is a sort of small drama there
[853.5s] that reveals the might and the glory of
[856.3s] God versus the weakness of the systems
[858.4s] of the world. Because once
[860.1s] Nebuchadnezzar comes to his uh let's say
[862.9s] the the cabinet the the top people, he
[865.4s] asks them for help and then they say you
[868.6s] give us the the dream and we shall give
[870.6s] you interpretation. Obviously, he
[873.0s] immediately sees. In fact, in the text,
[874.6s] it says, "I know that you just want to
[876.8s] lie. He wants to to buy time to
[879.6s] deceive." Yeah. But then how God
[881.8s] actually gives the vision through Daniel
[884.0s] after much prayer uh to indicate that he
[887.4s] truly knows the end from the beginning
[889.4s] and can see the system of the world um
[892.2s] in a way that you and I cannot see. Uh
[894.4s] even before I continue, by the way,
[895.8s] let's appreciate that Bible prophecy is
[898.2s] not like the prophecies that we would
[899.8s] see in the world around us.
[901.8s] Um uh uh I think many of us for instance
[905.0s] have access to some newspapers and
[907.4s] occasionally I think for me it's been a
[909.4s] while since I've viewed but the last
[910.8s] time I I open a newspaper I remember
[912.6s] seeing horoscopes there. You know
[914.5s] sometimes when you read through
[915.4s] horoscopes it's almost like every
[918.5s] horoscope can fit you. Yeah. Every
[921.0s] horoscope is like a sock that can fit
[922.7s] everyone. You know that is not a
[924.4s] prophecy. It's so generic you know. It's
[926.9s] like um there's I know I normally bring
[929.4s] up this story. There was normally h
[931.4s] there was um a great oracle who uh whose
[934.7s] advice was sought because supposedly she
[936.9s] could see into the future. I think it
[938.2s] was the oracle of deli. And so some
[940.3s] Greek kings came and asked um what shall
[943.1s] happen in the next upcoming battle? And
[945.6s] then the oracle said a great power shall
[947.5s] be destroyed. And so this king left
[949.9s] thinking that's me K. He was the one who
[952.6s] was the great power being destroyed not
[954.0s] the one who would be the Yeah. Yeah.
[956.5s] Yeah. So but in the Bible the prophecies
[958.3s] are not like that. They're very clear.
[960.1s] So in the book of uh Daniel uh chapter
[963.3s] 2:31-35, we actually find the vision.
[966.1s] Let me read it. It's actually uh in in
[968.5s] in by my estimation the most important
[971.9s] prophecy in the Bible because it lays a
[974.2s] very simple foundation from the time of
[975.9s] Daniel until the end the system that God
[979.2s] has has has decreed would happen. He
[982.1s] says, "Oh, thou king sawest, and behold,
[984.2s] a great image uh whose brightness was
[986.9s] excellent stood before thee, and the
[988.3s] form was terrible." And then in verse
[990.6s] 32, we are told that it had a head of
[992.7s] what? A head of gold. Um and then we are
[995.5s] told that its arms were of silver, its
[998.2s] belly and its thighs of brass. Verse 33,
[1001.5s] the legs of iron and its feet of iron
[1004.3s] and of clay. And then afterwards we see
[1007.4s] in verse 34 a stone is carried to that
[1009.7s] hand and is is cast to the feet to
[1013.2s] destroy. And guess what? Every single
[1016.1s] power from uh from from from from the
[1018.9s] top of the head up to the toe is
[1021.0s] destroyed and becomes like ash becomes
[1024.0s] like dust and is cast by the wind into
[1026.8s] oblivion. And there there are very
[1029.3s] simple lessons we can draw even before
[1031.0s] establishing um all the details because
[1034.7s] um in fact in the book of e um in verse
[1038.0s] 37 Daniel himself gives interpretation.
[1040.2s] He says you are the head of gold and
[1042.5s] then he is told after you shall come
[1044.2s] another kingdom which is obviously what
[1046.0s] no one wants to hear. You know there's
[1047.8s] no king who wants to hear that your time
[1049.8s] will end your
[1051.5s] dynasty your kingdom your dynasty
[1053.9s] everything about you will end. People
[1055.5s] want endlessness. God says no there is a
[1058.6s] there's a limit to all human authority
[1060.4s] and power. So after Nebuchadnezzar and
[1062.9s] Babylon comes the the arms of silver
[1065.8s] which is Midopasia and then afterwards
[1068.9s] the the belly of brass which is the
[1071.6s] kingdom of Greece that followed after.
[1073.8s] Uh and then afterwards came what the
[1076.0s] iron monarchy the iron empire of of Rome
[1079.6s] and afterwards Rome broke down into a
[1082.2s] mixture of iron and clay. A a a mixture
[1086.4s] of systems that were pagan and
[1088.2s] Christian. You know, if you go look at
[1089.8s] Europe, you realize that much of Europe
[1091.8s] was was almost like the children, the
[1094.2s] the descendants almost of of of of the
[1097.6s] Roman heritage. Um, all the way from
[1100.0s] from from from the UK, England all the
[1102.3s] way to Italy and even parts of Asia,
[1104.3s] Russia, but even in Russia, um, there
[1107.0s] was a time when the kings were called
[1109.4s] Zah Zhao and and Z derived from what?
[1112.5s] Caesar. So, you can see that heritage
[1115.2s] that all these powers were actually
[1117.4s] descendants of Rome. It was that
[1118.9s] breaking up of the feet into system that
[1122.2s] could never hold together truly, you
[1124.2s] know. But as the Bible says
[1127.2s] um verse 41 uh uh uh the kingdom shall
[1130.5s] be divided and they shall never mix one
[1132.7s] to the other. But what is uh you know
[1135.1s] this is a wonderful history lessons but
[1136.7s] what lessons can we learn from that?
[1138.6s] Number one, it is clear that God can see
[1141.1s] the end from the beginning. Because this
[1143.3s] prophecy given in 600 BC, it it it
[1147.2s] passed bit by bit by bit exactly as God
[1150.3s] had described it. Every power came after
[1152.8s] every other power as God had decreed.
[1154.9s] Its time passed and then another power
[1156.8s] came. Power to bring up things and to
[1159.6s] lay them down. Amen. He is in control.
[1161.8s] And he is has the ultimate power. And
[1164.1s] then secondly, we see that the God has
[1166.7s] established the end. The end is certain.
[1169.1s] Maybe following up from that I want to
[1171.8s] ask is then why does God allow it? Why
[1175.4s] does God allow evil kingdoms to rise and
[1178.5s] fall? How if he if he has the power, why
[1181.4s] does he permit it to happen? Uh it's the
[1184.0s] same reason for instance in the book of
[1186.0s] I think ex um um Genesis chapter 15, God
[1189.8s] was telling Abraham before he was going
[1191.6s] to go into Canaan, he told him the
[1193.4s] iniquity of the Amorites is not yet. And
[1195.9s] I believe it's Genesis 15:16. The
[1197.8s] iniquity of the Amorites is not yet. And
[1200.2s] that was it would take 400 years until
[1203.2s] the almost like the cup of the iniquity
[1205.8s] was full when God now sent Israel into
[1209.7s] Canaan now to to to exact his judgment
[1212.9s] upon those people because now that God
[1215.7s] decreed now the judgment is come. So for
[1218.5s] all these powers you can see that they
[1220.5s] are given time. In fact, in the book of
[1222.5s] Daniel, chapter I think it's chapter 6,
[1225.4s] you actually see that transition. It is
[1227.8s] a time when when when h the kingdom of
[1231.4s] Babylon, that head of gold, what are
[1233.3s] they doing? They have taken all of the
[1235.0s] holy vessels. They're corrupting them.
[1237.3s] They they have not learned any lessons
[1239.4s] that God has been trying to give. And
[1241.8s] and as a result, God takes the power at
[1244.1s] that night from Babylon and gives it to
[1247.0s] me. That's a small snapshot of what go
[1249.2s] God gives to kingdoms. He gives them
[1251.0s] time. He gives them an opportunity for
[1253.4s] them to to to to reveal themselves. You
[1257.8s] see? Yeah. But unfortunately, we know un
[1260.3s] you know it's like we we can see the end
[1262.7s] from the scripture. We know that all
[1264.6s] human kingdoms, all human governments
[1267.2s] will will ultimately uh fall to the
[1270.0s] affliction of human nature which is that
[1272.3s] the heart of man is deceitful above all
[1275.2s] things and desperately wicked. Yes.
[1278.6s] Amen. Amen. Thank you for sharing that
[1281.0s] with us. I mean Christ did prophesy and
[1284.3s] he says that even later on leave alone
[1287.3s] what happened in Midopasia or the Roman
[1289.9s] Empire or the Grecian Empire or the
[1292.6s] Babylonian Empire that even later on
[1295.4s] we'll see still see that men will still
[1298.3s] strive for the mastery men will still
[1301.0s] strive to lead. But it is comforting to
[1303.9s] know brothers and sisters that even then
[1307.9s] God is still in control. But he gives an
[1310.9s] opportunity for the children of Israel
[1313.5s] who are crying out for an earthly kings.
[1316.0s] Even though God had warned them of the
[1317.9s] consequences, God wants to reveal to
[1320.1s] them how these earthly kings shall be.
[1322.6s] After they cried and cried for many
[1325.4s] years and asked God for a king and God
[1327.8s] permitted it and God led them to have an
[1330.6s] opportunity to be led by their own
[1332.8s] Israelites until to a point where they
[1335.2s] rejected fully any direction that will
[1337.6s] come from God. The book of 2 Chronicles
[1340.2s] I believe it's uh chapter 36 that speaks
[1342.4s] of how they rejected God. They rejected
[1344.8s] all the prophets that he sent. They
[1346.5s] rejected all his messengers and God
[1349.2s] chose them chose them to send them to
[1352.0s] shall not be led by fellow Israelites,
[1354.6s] by fellow believers of Jehovah, but to
[1357.3s] be led by gentile kings. And that's how
[1360.2s] Daniel ends up in the book in the in um
[1362.8s] ends up in Babylon and receives this
[1365.4s] vision showing us that these visions I
[1368.1s] mean these kingdoms of men will not
[1370.4s] continue. Daniel chapter 7 gives us an
[1373.4s] expansion of what happens to these
[1375.7s] kingdoms. Now, not only showing us the
[1379.2s] the political movements from one kingdom
[1381.7s] to another, but the characteristics of
[1384.2s] these kingdoms, how they shall rule, how
[1386.6s] how will be how what what what what will
[1389.2s] be the rules or the or the or the wisdom
[1391.4s] or the understanding of one king versus
[1393.6s] another king, how will the king treat
[1395.9s] its people? And I want us to just stand
[1398.0s] there as we move on to the Tuesday part
[1400.2s] to break down the kingdoms of of of
[1403.1s] Daniel chapter 7. you have broken them
[1405.6s] down for us. Of course, represented um
[1408.1s] from Daniel, I mean from um from the
[1410.4s] head of gold. But I think as we move on
[1413.1s] to this, I I just want um um my brother
[1416.2s] Rafael to clarify one
[1418.2s] part. Why um what do we learn from the
[1422.6s] from the from the change of gold to
[1425.0s] silver uh silver to brass from brass to
[1429.1s] iron and from iron to I I mean from
[1431.5s] brass to iron and then iron and clay.
[1433.4s] What do we learn from that movement from
[1435.5s] those uh types of metals? Indeed, it it
[1438.2s] seems uh any any of us would be able to
[1440.5s] see that there is a significant change
[1443.0s] the quality of the material is
[1445.2s] deteriorating. It's simply telling us
[1447.7s] that the kingdoms of men in the ruler
[1451.3s] whenever man is ruling each subsequent
[1454.2s] generation is degrading one after the
[1457.0s] other. Whenever we have decided to take
[1460.6s] the reigns of of society and and and and
[1464.8s] of life and of living and we elevate
[1468.8s] humanism or uh man beyond uh the
[1473.0s] dictates of God and and we dethrone God
[1476.2s] and put their morality uh defined by
[1479.6s] human standards that subsequent
[1481.3s] generations actually decline. Indeed,
[1483.6s] people have even done studies about how
[1485.7s] societies fail. You see where when when
[1488.3s] when when when they're coming up, they
[1490.1s] have a moral backbone. They believe in
[1491.8s] God. And then when they when they are
[1493.5s] prosperous, they they reject God. And a
[1496.5s] funny thing is they say things like
[1497.9s] homosexuality start popping up. And and
[1500.8s] uh yes, sexual deviency and and and and
[1504.9s] everybody saying they are a ruler to
[1506.6s] themselves. My dress, my choice, my
[1508.6s] body, my choice, etc., etc. And
[1510.6s] eventually uh a society's whole
[1513.3s] societies come uh t tumbling down.
[1516.6s] Alexander the great an example of a
[1518.8s] young man who had conquered the then
[1520.3s] known world but yes because of his
[1522.9s] own degeneracy alcoholism he contracts a
[1527.1s] disease because his body is weakened and
[1529.3s] he dies young and his kingdom is
[1531.6s] divided. Going back uh to now a
[1535.8s] panoramic view of the world and its
[1537.9s] kingdoms. These were superpowers that
[1539.8s] were that ruled the world back then. We
[1542.0s] see from Babylon to Midopasia to to to
[1545.9s] Greece and to Rome and eventually to
[1548.2s] divided Rome. It's telling us of the
[1550.6s] progression of human societies, the
[1553.2s] progression of man being led by men, men
[1556.4s] being led by fellow men, how it
[1558.6s] degenerates until eventually the Bible
[1560.8s] records that that stone cut out without
[1564.6s] uh without without a man's hand. It's it
[1567.0s] is telling us a kingdom separate from
[1570.3s] the effects of men, from the schemes of
[1573.0s] men, from the unions of men, from the
[1575.0s] coalitions of men comes and it strikes
[1577.4s] this statue at its feet. And the Bible
[1579.7s] records it grinds it, it grinds it into
[1582.6s] dust and then a wind blows it aside like
[1586.1s] u like uh the chaff from the summer
[1587.9s] threshing flows and this stone grows
[1590.5s] into a mountain. It's telling us that
[1593.0s] brothers and sisters all these
[1595.4s] politicians all these unions that come
[1597.3s] together promising a better future the
[1600.1s] Bible paints a different p picture. In
[1603.3s] fact Bible says when they cry peace when
[1605.5s] they say peace peace destruction peace
[1607.7s] and safety destruction then suddenly
[1609.8s] destruction comes upon them. It simply
[1611.8s] tells us that our world is simply moving
[1614.4s] from bad to worse. It's simply on a
[1617.5s] steep decline. And the only true
[1619.8s] solution is Christ enthroned in the
[1622.0s] heart. And eventually when the kingdom
[1624.3s] of God, that new Jerusalem will come and
[1627.0s] righteousness shall reign supreme from
[1630.0s] corner to corner. And just like the
[1632.2s] kingdoms in Daniel chapter 2, the
[1633.9s] kingdoms in Daniel chapter 7 as well
[1636.6s] begin the same way. We start with a very
[1639.0s] powerful and mighty animal, the lion
[1642.2s] itself. And then we see we we are
[1644.9s] degrading as we go down to the bear that
[1647.8s] comes up. But I want to just read Daniel
[1650.2s] chapter 7 verse two. Daniel's uh uh
[1653.5s] writing says Daniel spen said I saw in
[1656.6s] my vision by night and behold the four
[1659.4s] winds of the heaven strove upon the
[1663.0s] great sea that these kingdoms as they
[1665.6s] rise they don't rise because one was
[1668.1s] enthroned because the people chose him.
[1670.5s] one was enthroned because or there was
[1672.9s] peace in the land and God chose and
[1675.0s] anointed a particular king. We are told
[1677.2s] that there are four great winds and we
[1679.6s] know winds in Bible prophecy I think
[1681.7s] from Jeremiah 25:31 and 32 they
[1685.1s] represent wars and strife and what does
[1688.2s] a great sea represent? The sea in
[1690.2s] Revelation 17:15 tells us that it
[1693.4s] represents many peoples that waters
[1695.8s] represent many peoples. So there's
[1697.8s] strife and war amongst the nations
[1700.6s] amongst the people for one kingdom to
[1703.1s] rise uh and from another kingdom to move
[1705.9s] forward. And we know the first kingdom
[1708.3s] is um the kingdom of uh of Babylon
[1712.2s] because we know that is the time when
[1713.7s] Daniel was living at that time when he's
[1715.6s] writing as he had told him you are that
[1718.2s] head of gold. And from Babylon came in
[1720.7s] Midopasia a weaker kingdom a kingdom led
[1724.0s] by Cyrus himself. And we know the bear
[1726.3s] was standing was raised up on one side
[1729.0s] and on the other side it was lower
[1731.1s] because the Persians were greater and
[1733.5s] actually their influence in the empire
[1736.0s] was greater than that of the mids. And
[1738.9s] then came forth the kingdom of Greece
[1741.9s] led by Alexander the Great. a very very
[1744.7s] one of one of the most interesting
[1746.8s] pieces of history that Alexander the
[1749.4s] Great immediately after his father was
[1751.8s] um was betrayed by his friend and he was
[1754.6s] raising rising up to start leading this
[1757.1s] army he moved from one part of the
[1759.8s] Persian Empire conquering that Persian
[1762.1s] Empire to the other end and he never saw
[1765.6s] the success of his reign. He never saw
[1768.4s] the success of all his wars because as
[1771.1s] he was coming back because of debauchery
[1774.6s] the alcohol that he had taken he he he
[1778.1s] contracted a fever and died. You see
[1780.5s] they they degrade over time. Someone who
[1783.8s] was so mighty someone who generals today
[1786.3s] learn from. They say Alexander was a
[1788.5s] great man died not because he was unwell
[1792.6s] died at a very young age. I think I
[1794.6s] believe of 35 years and never seen the
[1797.1s] fruit of his work. And from Alexander
[1799.4s] the Great came the Roman Empire. Did not
[1802.2s] rise into power because someone anointed
[1805.4s] them. But came into power because they
[1808.0s] ruled as the Bible tells us in um Daniel
[1811.0s] chapter 7, they ruled with iron. But in
[1814.2s] Daniel chapter 7, we are seeing
[1816.7s] something interesting that comes up. Was
[1819.2s] we were not given the details of this
[1821.1s] kingdom in Daniel chapter 2. But Daniel
[1823.6s] is given this this aspect of the
[1825.8s] kingdom. Why? He was a man of God. He
[1828.9s] was he was a follower of Jehovah. So God
[1832.3s] gives him the spiritual aspect of the
[1834.8s] rise of these kingdoms. And we see a
[1837.0s] little horn that rises up and a few
[1840.0s] characteristics that are given of this
[1841.9s] one. As we conclude in Daniel 7:8, we
[1845.4s] are told that I considered the horns,
[1847.2s] and behold, there came up among them
[1849.4s] another little horn. Before whom there
[1852.5s] were three of the first horns plucked up
[1855.0s] by the roots, and behold, in this horn
[1858.5s] were eyes like the eyes of man. And what
[1861.7s] do eyes represent? What do eyes
[1863.6s] represent in the Bible? Wisdom and
[1865.9s] insight. Wisdom and insight and
[1868.4s] understanding. And we are told that the
[1870.3s] wi the the little horn has the eyes of
[1873.8s] man. Meaning that it has the wisdom and
[1876.2s] the understanding of men. Not that of
[1878.4s] God. It is not ruling with the wisdom of
[1880.9s] God. It is ruling with the wisdom of
[1883.4s] men. And it speaks great things. It
[1886.3s] speaks mighty things, pompous words
[1889.3s] against Jehovah. And these are the
[1891.4s] kingdoms that rise to rule the men of
[1894.0s] this world. the men who cried for um for
[1897.3s] another king other than God ruling them.
[1899.5s] I don't know if you want to make a
[1900.8s] comment about this about how we end up
[1904.0s] now seeing a religious system rising up
[1907.5s] to make to lead um human beings not with
[1911.4s] the wisdom of of God but with the wisdom
[1914.1s] of men. And yet this is a religious
[1916.2s] system. Yes. It's just very unfortunate
[1919.2s] that um uh what should have been um you
[1923.4s] know like you would think this is almost
[1926.2s] um a return of of of of the kingdom of
[1929.6s] David or something like that. You know
[1931.9s] um a a a spiritual system that is in
[1935.2s] charge. But in truth what happened was
[1937.0s] that it was a supremely corrupt system.
[1939.2s] Jesus Christ when he was on on on earth
[1941.4s] was was superlative. He said perfectly
[1944.0s] clearly that his his power in fact we
[1946.7s] established this um uh in the last few
[1949.5s] weeks very very clearly that that his
[1951.7s] kingdom was not going to be established
[1953.0s] by power. But unfortunately this system
[1956.0s] this um religious and Christian system
[1958.8s] mingled itself with the systems of the
[1961.2s] world in a bid to gain power but in in
[1963.6s] in that bit to gain power corrupted
[1966.1s] itself fundamentally and and and and
[1968.6s] even today some people when they are
[1970.1s] seeking for an end to the problems that
[1973.1s] we see you know what my brother talked
[1975.0s] about the sexual vice and the sexual um
[1977.8s] corruptions people are thinking oh let
[1979.7s] us have the church in charge let us have
[1981.9s] the church um united with the state in
[1985.0s] dealing with these issues.
[1986.3s] Unfortunately, these systems corrupt
[1988.1s] each other as we have seen in history
[1989.8s] and unfortunately as what we will see um
[1992.5s] even in the near future. And my brother
[1994.6s] Rafael, as this religious system is
[1997.2s] rising, what does it what does it do to
[2000.3s] the people of God, to the faithful
[2002.0s] people of God? As we move on to the
[2004.0s] Wednesday part, what does it do to the
[2006.1s] people of God? and how does it manifest
[2008.6s] itself especially as is written in
[2011.0s] Revelation chapter 12. Maybe you can
[2013.1s] speak to us about that and then show us
[2015.0s] the latter kingdoms that rise up because
[2017.3s] you have spoken of the kingdoms that
[2019.2s] existed then. What are the latter
[2021.3s] kingdoms that rise up in these last
[2023.4s] days? Indeed. Um Revelation chapter 12
[2026.6s] sort of paints um a picture that is uh
[2030.6s] consistent in that there are two groups.
[2033.8s] There are the children of God, those who
[2035.8s] obey God and then there are children of
[2038.2s] men, those who ask for kings. And then
[2040.9s] we uh then a veil is also lifted. We saw
[2045.1s] in nations one, we saw that the devil
[2048.2s] uses mediums. And so in this particular
[2050.9s] case in Revelation 12, we see a woman
[2054.0s] who is uh who is clothed with the sun.
[2057.0s] We we we touched on this a bit of this
[2059.3s] last last Sabbath, I believe. uh in in
[2061.9s] verse three we're introduced to a woman
[2063.2s] and we saw a woman is what a church in
[2066.0s] 12 is a church and this is clothed with
[2068.3s] the righteousness which is uh with the
[2070.3s] son Christ is a son of righteousness um
[2073.0s] and um and um and many other aspects
[2075.4s] this is a church the true church but
[2077.0s] then we see a dragon in verse three in
[2079.7s] verse 9 says that this great dragon that
[2082.0s] was cast out is that old serpent called
[2083.9s] who the devil and Satan that deceives
[2086.6s] the whole world he was cast out of the
[2089.0s] earth with his angels who are cast out
[2091.0s] with him. And then the Bible continues
[2093.1s] and tells us that he goes and does what?
[2095.7s] He wages war with the saints. He goes
[2099.4s] and does what? He wages war with the
[2102.2s] saints. In verse four, it says that this
[2104.7s] dragon was ready to devour the woman's
[2107.4s] child. But eventually the child was
[2110.6s] rescued. The Bible records in verse 12
[2112.9s] in verse 13. And when the dragon saw
[2115.4s] that he was cast into the earth, he
[2117.4s] persecuted the woman. This is the church
[2119.6s] which brought forth the manchild. The
[2121.4s] manchild here is who? Is Christ. We had
[2123.8s] we had sort of discussed some of this um
[2126.5s] in um in our pre in our prior lesson. We
[2129.4s] saw
[2131.2s] u the devil through who? Herod trying to
[2135.4s] destroy Christ through when Herod gave
[2137.7s] the decree after the wise men had
[2140.4s] visited the devil tried to kill Christ
[2143.3s] at infancy. All the children under the
[2145.4s] age of three were killed when the devil
[2147.4s] tried to destroy the Messiah as he had
[2149.5s] been heralded as he had come. And so and
[2152.4s] the Bible records what happened in that
[2154.4s] story when when news of the decree by
[2158.6s] Herod came. The Bible says Joseph and
[2162.1s] Mary went where? They went to Egypt.
[2164.2s] They went to the wilderness. They went
[2166.2s] to the wilderness to the desert to seek
[2168.3s] refuge as we shall see. Is ke to say
[2171.6s] Africa. Africa. Yes. In a sense, Africa
[2174.1s] has always been where the gospel has
[2176.6s] sought refuge.
[2178.2s] Africa, even the man, the Simon the
[2180.8s] Sirenian, they say was a black man. He's
[2183.3s] always been there for Christ in his hour
[2184.9s] of need. Amen. Indeed. And so the Bible
[2187.3s] records and says
[2189.4s] um in verse 14, and the woman was given
[2193.0s] and to the woman was given to the church
[2194.8s] were given two wings as a great eagle
[2196.6s] that she might fly where? Into the
[2198.5s] wilderness. It's almost a parallel also
[2200.0s] of what Mary and Joseph did going to
[2202.2s] Egypt which was a wild place sort of
[2204.2s] like a desert a wilderness here is the
[2206.2s] connotation of a desert and into her
[2208.4s] place and there she was nourished for a
[2210.3s] time times and half a time from the face
[2213.2s] of the serpent but what is being talked
[2215.4s] about here in essence is something
[2217.8s] different. It's talking about how the
[2221.0s] Protestant church under people
[2223.6s] persecution. The Protestant church under
[2226.0s] people persecution went and sought um
[2229.6s] for a new land, a place where which was
[2233.0s] not highly inhabited, a place with with
[2236.5s] almost what they called a new earth, you
[2238.8s] know. Um and and and we shall see this
[2242.2s] expounded more intently in Revelation
[2244.6s] chapter 13. Revelation chapter 13 speaks
[2246.6s] and says
[2248.3s] uh finishing uh 15 and 16 of 12 it says
[2252.9s] um the serpent did what the serpent cast
[2256.0s] out of his mouth water as a flood after
[2259.5s] the woman that he might cause her to be
[2261.4s] carried away of the flood. So there's
[2264.5s] serpent using what water and then the
[2267.0s] Bible says in verse 16 but the what
[2269.5s] happened the earth helped the woman. So
[2272.2s] we see the devil using water and the
[2274.5s] earth doing what? Helping the woman. And
[2276.8s] the earth opened her mouth and swallowed
[2279.0s] up the flood which the dragon cast out
[2281.0s] of his mouth. And the Bible continues
[2283.2s] and says the devil was not happy with
[2285.0s] this. Now there's the use of the earth
[2289.4s] and the use of water here as a flood.
[2293.1s] Revelation 13 verse 1 and verse 11
[2297.2s] speaks about beasts and and we
[2299.1s] established in Daniel 7 and verse 14 and
[2302.2s] verse 15 that beasts as you've rightly
[2305.4s] laid out are powers yes they are
[2308.6s] kingdoms and kings and revelation 13
[2311.8s] says verse one and I stood John is
[2315.0s] standing upon the sand of the sea and he
[2317.7s] sees a beast rising out of what of the
[2320.2s] sea having seven heads and 10 horns and
[2324.0s] upon his horns 10 crowns upon and upon
[2326.7s] his heads the names of blasphemy. So he
[2329.8s] sees a beast that is blasphemous, a
[2333.0s] power that is blaspheming and you can
[2334.8s] only blasphem against God. This is in
[2336.7s] essence a power that is against God and
[2339.3s] think words and yes and blasphemy by by
[2343.3s] virtue of it being blasphemerous it
[2344.8s] means it has a spiritual angle to it. It
[2347.2s] has some sort of religion that is
[2348.9s] against God. is not simply secular but
[2351.9s] it is blasphemous. It means it's taking
[2354.2s] upon itself some of the prerogatives of
[2356.5s] God like forgiving sin you know like
[2359.5s] changing the day of worship like uh like
[2363.0s] like uh like putting upon itself
[2365.6s] basically the dictates uh that only
[2368.2s] setting up saints and Mary as mediators
[2371.8s] aspects of religion and it is also
[2374.0s] equally a political power. It is it has
[2378.2s] both religious uh uh political religious
[2381.2s] power. The Bible records this beast
[2384.7s] rises up and what does it do? It says in
[2388.2s] verse four, they worshiped the dragon
[2391.4s] which gave power unto the beast. So this
[2394.2s] kingdom that is also religious is
[2396.7s] sponsored by who? You know whenever
[2399.1s] we're watching football they say the UFA
[2401.1s] Champions League is proudly sponsored by
[2403.6s] an alcoholic brand. So the similarly now
[2407.1s] John is saying he saw the power that was
[2410.4s] behind you know and they said another
[2413.5s] thing that we're told a critical thing
[2415.4s] here is what worship the Bible says in
[2418.0s] verse four and they worship the dragon
[2420.2s] let me just ask yes that because it's
[2423.0s] before you I can see you're moving away
[2424.7s] from verse one what is the significance
[2426.5s] of it rising up from the sea and I was
[2430.2s] coming back to it I was going to
[2431.3s] backpedal I was going to backpedal back
[2433.1s] to it is significant in revelation 17
[2435.6s] and:e1 15 the Bible explains itself you
[2439.0s] know here a little there a little
[2440.3s] scripture the method of studying the
[2442.2s] scripture and it tells us what waters
[2444.2s] mean in revelation 17 we're told again
[2447.3s] once again the same power described
[2450.3s] differently now we're describing its
[2452.2s] religious aspect and it's described as
[2455.0s] we looked at in nations chapter one as a
[2458.0s] woman who has walked away from her
[2460.6s] marriage a prostitute a and it
[2463.5s] says this woman was doing what? On many
[2467.0s] on many waters on many waters. But now
[2469.4s] in verse 15, we are be it is explained
[2471.4s] to us what these many waters are. It
[2473.7s] says the waters which thou sest where
[2475.6s] they seated are what? Peoples,
[2478.9s] multitudes, nations and tongues. So the
[2482.1s] Bible when it speaks about a beast
[2484.0s] rising up of the water, it's speaking
[2486.3s] about
[2488.0s] powers emerging from regions that are
[2491.3s] densely populated from an area where
[2493.4s] there are people, there are multitudes,
[2494.8s] there are tongues and nations. And by
[2496.8s] contrast, we'll see in Revelation 11,
[2499.5s] there is another beast that is appearing
[2502.6s] now. And this beast in Revelation rather
[2505.0s] revelation 13:1, it says this beast now
[2508.2s] is appearing out of what? The earth. And
[2511.1s] so there's that contrast of the earth.
[2513.1s] And the Bible says this beast is also
[2515.5s] compared. We're told and he had two
[2517.4s] horns like what? Like a lamb. Like a
[2519.3s] lamb. But eventually started speaking
[2521.1s] what? Like a dragon. Like a dragon. And
[2523.3s] so if
[2525.9s] the sea the sea in essence is land that
[2529.2s] has water. Yes. True. Pretty much. Yes.
[2532.2s] Pretty much. Under the sea you'll find
[2534.6s] you find land you find land there. Uh
[2537.0s] and so
[2538.4s] um event uh eventually there's now a
[2543.7s] kingdom that is coming out of the earth.
[2546.7s] In essence, a place where there is no
[2548.3s] water, a place that is not densely
[2550.6s] populated. We've seen the waters are
[2553.0s] symbolic in Revelation 17 and:e 15 of
[2555.3s] multitudes, nations, and people. And so
[2558.1s] we see in Revelation chapter 13 and 11,
[2561.2s] a second kingdom that rises up and it's
[2564.1s] lamblike. And we see connecting these
[2566.9s] two in Revelation 12 verse 15 and 16
[2570.6s] from verse 14 15 and 16 we see the
[2573.2s] church fleeing into the wilderness and
[2576.2s] we saw because of the persecution of the
[2578.3s] dark ages there were those Christians
[2580.9s] who fled from Europe and
[2583.5s] went the ship called the Mayflower and
[2586.2s] they went and found after Christopher
[2589.4s] Columbus went and
[2591.6s] found non-Europeans in America because
[2595.0s] there were people there. Yes. He found
[2596.2s] an Europeans in America and he found a
[2597.9s] land that had opportunity, a land that
[2599.6s] was not wellu that was not densely
[2602.3s] populated. And this news went uh went
[2605.4s] back uh to the motherland uh to Europe
[2608.2s] and eventually Christians who were
[2611.6s] running away from papal persecution.
[2613.1s] They went into this wilderness, this new
[2615.3s] earth, this new this new uh uh they
[2618.5s] called this land America, you know, and
[2621.0s] and when they went there now, they
[2622.7s] established uh colonies and and and and
[2625.5s] governments. That's why you find a place
[2627.0s] called New York because the original New
[2628.6s] York is in England, there's New
[2630.2s] Hampshire, uh etc., etc., New Jersey,
[2633.4s] because they were remembering where they
[2635.3s] came from. And so they established this
[2637.0s] place in essence a fulfillment of the
[2639.0s] commandment a fulfillment of the
[2640.6s] prophecy that indeed the earth came and
[2643.8s] aided the woman. This this place this
[2646.2s] this land that was that was that wasn't
[2648.8s] that wasn't hadn't been explored uh but
[2651.8s] it still had inhabitants. It came and
[2654.7s] America as a nation rose up and the
[2657.2s] Bible says it was compared as a lamp
[2659.3s] meaning uh show telling speaking to us
[2661.5s] about the Protestant the Christian
[2663.7s] foundations how America started as a
[2665.9s] land of the free even in its
[2667.6s] constitution uh giving people religious
[2670.2s] freedom uh its amendments you know
[2671.9s] freedom to freedom of speech freedom of
[2673.9s] movement all these all these things
[2675.4s] which were being curtailed by the people
[2678.2s] by the people powers back then. Yes.
[2681.3s] Amen. Amen. Thank you so much for
[2683.6s] elaborating Revelation chapter 13 and to
[2685.7s] make it clear that the land does
[2687.7s] represent a land that um is u less dense
[2692.4s] and the sea represents a place that is
[2695.3s] very densely populated with many peoples
[2697.5s] and a multitude and tongues and this
[2699.8s] nation that rises up in Revelation 13
[2702.9s] starts like a lamblike beast as you have
[2704.8s] said but revelation 13:1 tells us that
[2708.1s] it is going to eventually speak like the
[2710.8s] dragon the dragon you spoke of that had
[2713.6s] blasphemers was maybe you can um talk to
[2716.9s] us about this. It seems um the the
[2719.9s] church has found a refuge in a land that
[2722.8s] looks like they running away from
[2724.4s] persecution but this land and nation
[2726.6s] that they have gone to will eventually
[2729.0s] speak like the d like the dragon we have
[2732.2s] heard about. What is the remedy? What is
[2734.6s] the remedy um of the church? What is the
[2737.0s] remedy for this land and for this sea?
[2740.0s] Thank you so much. Um so uh in the
[2742.4s] Thursday part as we're discussing
[2743.6s] professor again we actually find an
[2745.0s] answer to that uh question. Uh all of
[2747.6s] those in fact or rather a very large
[2749.4s] number of those Protestants Baptist and
[2751.8s] so forth who had fled um the US sorry
[2755.8s] the uh uh England and Europe coming to
[2758.6s] the US. What happened? Unfortunately as
[2761.4s] we saw the h it it has lamp icons. The
[2764.4s] lamp in the book of revelation we saw um
[2766.6s] I think maybe two two lessons before the
[2769.4s] lamb is universally a symbol of who of
[2771.3s] Christ of Jesus Christ. So it had it it
[2774.0s] almost had the appearance of being
[2775.4s] Christian but eventually speaks like a
[2777.5s] dragon. Why? Because these individuals
[2780.5s] many of these Christians once they got
[2782.2s] to America they forgot the reason why
[2784.5s] they had forsaken uh h the land of their
[2787.2s] fathers um all of a sudden they began to
[2789.8s] act like the the people they had escaped
[2792.2s] from. How unfortunate. Exactly. They
[2794.0s] began to establish religion um in the US
[2797.0s] and force people and force their
[2799.0s] consciences, force people to worship in
[2800.5s] a way that is contrary to their own
[2802.0s] consciences. So for instance, there was
[2804.2s] a group of um uh Christians called
[2806.6s] Anabaptists who believed in h baptizing
[2810.0s] again which is what anabaptists means.
[2812.3s] uh uh so then when one of the Christians
[2814.3s] who was doing that going to baptize
[2816.5s] somebody who was already baptized let's
[2817.9s] say at um as a child you know uh again
[2821.0s] into the new faith of Jesus Christ or
[2822.8s] something like that some of those people
[2824.6s] were even drowned because of that
[2827.1s] because it was contrary to religious
[2828.6s] principle um there was even an
[2830.7s] establishment of tithing um uh by law so
[2834.6s] you know like tithing would come out
[2836.2s] like tax you know and all of a sudden
[2839.3s] the religious principles which you would
[2841.8s] think would be nurtured by a heart of
[2843.6s] affection. Those princip they're being
[2846.9s] forced out of the individual and that
[2848.6s] always breeds the same hypocrisy that
[2850.3s] they had escaped in in Europe, they end
[2852.9s] up unfortunately beginning to establish
[2854.9s] in the US. So the same spirit of
[2856.6s] persecution because of religious beliefs
[2859.3s] continues on now in this new land. Yes.
[2861.6s] And now it's in this land you actually
[2863.4s] find uh this message that is preached of
[2865.5s] Revelation chapter 10 reading verse 1 to
[2868.1s] 11. But I would like to focus on verse
[2869.7s] two. There is a great angel, a great and
[2872.4s] mighty angel who has a very interesting
[2874.8s] description. We are told that he's uh
[2877.3s] there was a rainbow on his head. His
[2878.7s] face is like the sun. His feet are like
[2880.9s] pillars of fire. Uh I urge you to go and
[2883.2s] study Revelation chapter one. You
[2885.0s] actually find who that angel is. Very
[2887.0s] interesting. It is almost certainly if
[2889.0s] not certainly none other than Jesus
[2890.8s] Christ. So um he has in his hand a
[2893.8s] little book open and he sets his right
[2895.7s] foot on the sea and his left foot on the
[2897.6s] earth. And you can see right there the
[2899.6s] symbols of what? The earth and the sea.
[2902.0s] So it's actually at a time when this
[2904.6s] message that he's supposed to give, he's
[2906.8s] giving to um John because he will tell
[2909.3s] John later to eat this small book. It's
[2911.4s] actually a message that God wants to go
[2913.5s] um throughout to both the earth and the
[2915.7s] sea to all over to both the old and the
[2918.2s] new world to the world that is populated
[2920.8s] uh Europe and the like to the world that
[2922.5s] is less populated. And and and what is
[2925.8s] this message? What is this small book?
[2927.6s] You actually find uh if you do a simple
[2930.2s] study of all the symbols that are found
[2932.5s] there, you find that the same book is
[2934.4s] described in the book of Daniel chapter
[2936.5s] 12. From verse four onward, you find
[2938.6s] that there's a book that you stole. Shut
[2940.6s] up the book up until the time of the
[2942.9s] end. And then in Revelation 10, we are
[2945.0s] told that the book is opened. You can
[2947.4s] now eat the book. And then what happens
[2950.0s] when John eats the book? We are told um
[2953.4s] verse 9, I went unto the angel and said,
[2956.0s] "Give me the book." And he said, "Take
[2957.7s] it and eat it up and it shall make your
[2959.7s] belly bitter, but it shall be in your
[2961.5s] mouth sweet as honey." And when I took
[2963.5s] the book, a little book out of the
[2965.2s] angel's hand, I ate it up and it was in
[2967.8s] my mouth sweet as honey. And as soon as
[2969.9s] I had eaten it, it had made my belly
[2972.0s] bitter. So what was that? He ate this
[2974.4s] message that is found in the book of
[2975.7s] Daniel. Again, take time to search
[2977.9s] through all the book of Daniel. You ask
[2979.4s] yourself, what was sealed in the book of
[2981.4s] Daniel? We saw Daniel 2 was open. We
[2983.8s] understand what those kingdoms are. that
[2985.5s] was understood long even within the
[2987.0s] text. Daniel 7, we understand what is
[2989.2s] present there. Daniel 8, there there are
[2991.8s] parts of a message that is given and
[2993.8s] there's a special prophecy that we were
[2995.9s] told is sealed. We looked at it in the
[2997.9s] first week. Exactly. And that prophecy
[3000.5s] of the e of the mornings and evenings,
[3003.3s] the 2,300 day prophecy that talks of the
[3006.0s] cleansing of the sanctuary, it is
[3007.4s] sealed. That message is the message that
[3009.6s] is given to the to the earth and the
[3011.8s] sea. And what is that message? the
[3014.7s] message that the earth shall be cleansed
[3017.1s] because at that time people thought that
[3018.7s] the sanctuary was the earth. So this
[3021.0s] message that the sanctuary is being
[3022.7s] cleansed is a message that the earth is
[3024.7s] being cleansed. And so people go forth
[3026.8s] to preach that Jesus Christ is coming.
[3029.0s] Because if you think about it, when is
[3030.9s] it that the earth is cleansed? It is at
[3032.7s] the second coming of Jesus Christ. And
[3035.0s] what happens? Even the Bible itself said
[3037.4s] that when they eat the book, what will
[3039.0s] happen? It will be sweet in the mouth
[3041.0s] but then beat in the belly. But then
[3042.6s] they told you must prophesy again. And
[3045.4s] and how does that play out in history
[3047.4s] that they eat the message Jesus Christ
[3049.4s] is coming. It's so soon, you know, and
[3051.6s] they with great power and strength
[3053.4s] preach this message. It is a sweet
[3055.0s] message, but then the bitterness comes.
[3057.0s] Why? Because they realize that they
[3058.7s] misunderstood that prophecy that the
[3060.5s] sanctuary being cleansed was something
[3061.8s] else entirely. But then now God says,
[3064.2s] "You must prophesy again." And that is
[3067.2s] the message that God gave especially to
[3069.0s] this church that arose out of that great
[3071.4s] disappointment out of the bitterness of
[3073.2s] the belly which is that this message
[3075.3s] that is to go to nations kingdoms
[3077.8s] tongues and people uh we are told verse
[3080.1s] 11 of Daniel chap revelation chapter 10
[3082.6s] you must prophesy again before peoples
[3084.6s] nations tongues and kings is the very
[3086.6s] same message we are told in revelation
[3088.0s] chapter 14 that is that everlasting
[3090.5s] gospel that is going to the same nations
[3092.3s] people tongues and kings that message of
[3095.5s] of Christ coming soon. Get ready. Get
[3098.6s] ready. Get ready. Fear God and give him
[3101.2s] glory. The hour of his judgment is come.
[3104.7s] Is come. Thank you so much. Um and you
[3107.8s] we have gone all the way from the Garden
[3111.8s] of Eden up to the establishment of the
[3114.6s] 7th Day Adventist Church in 1844. And
[3118.2s] God giving the 7th Day Adventist Church
[3120.5s] one mission. Prophesy again. Go out. We
[3124.7s] we see that um um angel in Revelation
[3127.4s] chapter 14 um flying out swiftly and
[3131.4s] going out and preaching the everlasting
[3133.8s] gospel to all the world. I'd want us to
[3137.0s] close here, but I want us to just um um
[3140.0s] read one text um in the book of I think
[3143.0s] it is in Ezekiel if I remember very
[3146.0s] correctly. Ezekiel just open it right
[3149.6s] now that says that God will overturn
[3152.9s] overturn. This is Ezekiel chapter 21.
[3156.2s] I'm reading verse 27. I will
[3159.6s] overturn, overturn, overturn it. Many
[3163.0s] kingdoms will be overturned and it shall
[3165.8s] be no more. All these kingdoms we have
[3168.1s] read about, they will be no more. Even
[3169.8s] those ones that are said, we will make
[3171.8s] this nation great again. He will
[3174.2s] overturn them and it shall be no more
[3177.4s] until he come. Whose right it is? And
[3180.8s] who is that? Christ Jesus. and I will
[3183.6s] give it to him. God is overturning many
[3186.5s] nations. There are nations today they're
[3187.9s] saying we want to be the superpower. We
[3189.9s] want to rise up again. We want to be
[3191.7s] great again. God says I will overturn
[3194.6s] and I'll overturn them and overturn them
[3197.4s] until whose right it is. Christ who died
[3200.1s] for this world until he takes the
[3203.2s] reigns. I pray that you first give him
[3206.0s] the leadership of your own heart so that
[3208.6s] when he comes to reign on these nations,
[3210.9s] you will be his subject. May God bless
[3214.2s] you. Thank you for studying with us
[3215.9s] today. I'd want to ask um my um husband
[3219.7s] Jaffet kindly pray with us. Thank you.
[3221.4s] Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank
[3223.8s] you for having taken us through this um
[3226.6s] study, this study of uh nations. This uh
[3229.5s] it is a closing study that uh we began
[3231.9s] last week. We ask that your holy spirit
[3234.0s] may impress upon our hearts all the
[3235.6s] wonderful lessons that we have learned
[3237.5s] over the course of this uh review in
[3239.8s] Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[3241.8s] Amen. Thank you.