Title: Lesson 9 || In the Psalms: Part 2 || 2nd Quarter 2025
Video ID: IPlMA2gJmQs
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IPlMA2gJmQs
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you so much for joining us today as we study the Sabbath school lesson for this week, Psalms part two. Last week we considered Psalm part one and I'm excited to be uh studying with you as we diving into this lesson. Today is chaplain Sabbath and you are welcome to worship with us here at New Life 7th Day Adventist Church, Fifth Gong Avenue. I am joined by my friends uh to study with us this lesson. I would like them to introduce themselves and we will pray even before we begin. Um we can start from your end my brother. My name is Enongo Rafa. It's a pleasure to be with you this Sabbath. Amen. Thank you so much. And my husband? Yes. My name is Jafet Rono. Uh actually with regard to the chapency program um I I guess we can discuss after the prayer. Thank you. All right. Thank you so much for joining us as well. I would like us to pray and then we can uh uh start. Maybe you can start and pray with us. Okay. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity you've given us to do this uh study into Psalms uh uh part two. We are always grateful for the opportunity uh to interact virtually um with so many of our friends who are similarly Bible students. Bless us and fill us with your spirit. In Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. For those who may not be familiar with what chapency program may look like. New Life Seventh Day Adventist Church has a very vibrant chaplet program which involves ministering in prisons, ministering in high schools, ministering to the communities around us and particularly in the high schools around us and we have seen over the over many years great impact in those high schools. I want just to start um with brother Rafael to just give us his own experience because I know he was baptized when he was in high school of the impact of chapency in his life even as we invite you to join us for this chapency Sabbath today. Indeed, chaplain uh has been a powerful influence in my life and u even after finishing high school we and myself and a couple of my friends uh from the faith we paid it back and we in we also likewise became chaplain and visited and I can tell you um chapency and chaplain makes a whole lot of difference for students when when the Sabbath comes in because sometimes it's difficult to um to fellowship ship amongst yourselves because you're both green, you're both struggling perhaps with the same things. You know, you're having issues, you're having squables, but when the the chaplain steps in then there's a neutral figure, a figure with experience, a figure with with with with learning and who can guide and and it's it's wonderful and it's powerful. I can I remember it was a it was through chapency that we were led through elders and chaplain as well through the baptismal of uh studies and eventually to the waters of baptism and and and and its influence I can tell you was wonderful. These men and women who spared their time from even being with their families and with their congregations and and and and being in their in their churches and go and stay there with the students and listen to the problems of students. You know, sometimes it can be if you look at it in retrospective, you realize you were struggling with some little some strange things, but nonetheless, there were struggles nonetheless. But yet, there were people who were patient with us and they they they took time and and and and they groomed us and they they set the pace for all of us. They helped us to understand what exactly it means to be a seventh day Adventist. One thing you will realize, many young people just know that in their home, they go to church on Saturday. And it was that mindset that I remember even myself when I was in high school in form one. I'd go but when there events on Sabbath you'd find you'd go you play rugby you'll do all manner of things here and there but then at some point through the chapency program somebody comes and they preach there are rallies people come then you realize oh you start listening and then you realize there's actually some science to this faith there's actually um what I what I would call like the anatomy of believing you start understanding the various parts of the church and why exactly what exactly it means to be a seventh day Adventist and and how all these truths comes together to build this one person, this one faith that is the Adventist uh the seventh day Adventist um church. And so even after that I think I became active um as a chaplain both for New Life and for the high school uh where and other high schools wherein I was um um I was had the opportunity and the privilege and so I believe um chapency is powerful. It's very powerful and and and I encourage all of us to be active. Amen. Amen. That's wonderful. You know, and today when we were walking into the church, I just met a young man who uh met my husband and he was he was just uh giving his testimonies like I remember you when I was back in high school. You came and preached in our high school and I've met very many other young men time and time again who tell me, "Oh, I was converted because your husband came and preached and I was seated in that congregation in high school." So just share your experience maybe first your own experience with chaplain he did to you and then um your experience now with you going back in those high schools and speaking to them. Uh thank you so much. Um actually um listening to Raph's um uh experience is actually quite enlightening because as what he experienced from within um looking in deeper is what I experienced from without. I was not um um I grew up in a home that was Christian but not 7th Day Adventist. But my interaction with my friends in school um drove me to join the the SDA club and from there the chapency team used to come and minister there and actually I learned so many Bible truths and I learned so much about Jesus Christ about his plan for me in my life about the word of God and so many wonderful things. It was such a revelatory experience and and just as Raf was saying you know you like you get that feeling that I I feel like I need to give back. I received so much almost fully obviously the wonderful free grace but also the ministry that others have sacrificed on my behalf. So I also decided to to to bless others and in the process was actually blessed. You it's almost that when you are present there interacting with people who are are um are themselves seeking you end up learning so much. So chapency is a wonderful opportunity for the young people especially as young boys and and young girls, young men and young women who are at the point that is extremely formative when they're learning about the fundamentals of life. Their minds are being um molded by uh by by so many experiences that they encounter. That's actually the best time for them to learn. Um once I was able to uh interact with so many of the young people um in in high schools especially for my chapency h as I was growing spiritually I really felt that I was um helping so many others understand why it is we believe what we believe there's a there's there's unfortunately um a scarcity that chapency offers and provides so liberally. So I very much encourage everyone to at the very least even try and understand if not participate and and help support this chapency ministry which uh I feel so fundamentally is God blessed and God breathed. Amen. Amen. And you know the Bible says that heaven rejoices and the angels celebrate when one soul comes to Christ. Today in New Life Seven Day Adventist Church, we are going to witness not one, not two, but about 150 students from high school. Amen. Being baptized today, the impact of the chaplain program. If you're seated at home and you're watching us and you'd like to volunteer, you'd like to support this program, please reach out to us. There are many ways, there's a lot of work still to be done. reach out to New Life Seven Day Adventist Church to see how you can participate in impacting the lives of these young people. Quite exciting to watch that and behold it today. We welcome you to join us even as we celebrate with them as we see the kingdom of of of the devil being shaken today as young men and women come to Christ Jesus. I want us now to go into the lesson discussion. We are studying Psalms part two. And you know, we've been looking at what what was God's intention when he was revealing um to us um his plan and unraveling his plan to his children in these last days. And he had hidden these things in symbols and in figures, but he has made them known to his children. Those who have chosen to do his will, he he has indeed revealed his doctrine. And we have looked at C symbols in the book of Revelation, in the book of Daniel. But today we are not just we are going to go beyond those symbols and we are going to look at some of the fundamental issues that Christ wants to address things that we don't think that probably the prophecies address but primarily God wants to address the issue of sin. What is God going to do with sinners? When is going God going to end this controversy between him and the devil? The issue of judgment. When will God rise up and judge? And you know sometimes we start out, we stand up and we cry out to God and we ask God like Habacook once ask God for how long will you sit and watch this evil going on? Well, for how long will you watch this evil continuing on on this earth? And maybe someone today is also crying and asking the same question. the book of Daniel and the book of revelation. They give us those answers, but they are especially revealed in the book of Psalms in a very endearing way that I want us to look at today. And I want us to start with God being a very present help in the time of trouble. Brother Jaff, just take us through the book of Psalm 46 and God's promise as he's ending this controversy. What is his plan with his people? Amen. Um, we understand full well that we do not live in paradise. We do not live in a world that you expect God's principles and God's laws as wonderful as they are to be kept. We know that in this world there's so much chaos and commotion. Um, sometimes um we are watching it from afar, watching it from close. Other times we are actually present in it. We um you know uh we know in the scriptures um Jesus Christ in the book of Matthew 24 speaking of wars and rumors of wars to this very day we know that uh in the news media there there's there's one new conflict one new catastrophe one new trouble you know even um internally there are issues of strife sometimes even uh difficulties financially resulting maybe from you know uh burdens that are are are very difficult to bear. We ask ourselves where is God in all of this? And the answer actually is found very wonderfully in the book of Psalms 46. We are told and I'm reading from King James and you may follow with me from your own uh translations friends. Uh Psalm 46 uh verse one. It says, "God is our refuge and our strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will um will not we fear. uh though the earth be removed and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. So what is uh uh uh uh the scripture saying here? What is David saying? David is saying that the reason why God can be our very uh uh great help and refuge is precisely um h sorry the reason why we need not fear is precisely because we trust in a God who uh h is in the midst of his people. uh verse five and therefore h Zion and Israel and God's people shall not be moved that God has a desire to give his people peace in the time of trouble. God is not going to pluck us out of the world which is full of conflict. Even Jesus Christ said that um what when he was praying he says I pray that you take them not out of the world but you keep them from the evil one. And how was that? by the promise he gave of the Holy Spirit being sent to his people. God being present. Verse five, God being in the midst of her. God being in the midst of his people is that true source of peace and calm and serenity that God's people can actually rely upon you and I friend even today. And that is the wonderful it's it's almost the it's it's it's great news that is so simple and yet so deep. Again as we are continuing uh uh we see a contrast that David brings. He says the heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved. He uttered his voice and the earth melted. Again speaking of of of the finality with which he will bring a a an end to all the conflicts but we are told the heathen raged. God's people we are told the command is verse 10 be still. Verse six the heathen rage. Verse 10 gospel be still. The expectation is not that that that we act irrationally and that we act almost like we are have out of body experiences as we're walking out in this world. H acting as if um uh we are unconcerned with the troubles around us but God is telling us to be still. The promises of verse five that God is in the midst of her of verse one God is our refuge and therefore we will not fear. Those promises are to those with whom the world has the heathen raging. The e even today sometimes there even a a thoughts you know oh oh no um e some calamity is arising. Oh no the pandemic that we experienced a few years ago is coming back. Oh no uh uh even we're on the verge of of a great world war world war II that will even eclipse the first and the second world war. But all that doesn't matter to God's people who can stay calm and be at ease and recognize that we can have the hope of Christ's return first presently Christ present with us in the personal of the Holy Spirit and Christ's ultimate return. These things resting in our hearts can take from us all fear that we have of any trouble that even the enemy even the world around us all things may be threatening upon us. Amen. Amen. You know the Bible speaks in the book of Daniel of a time of trouble that will come. Maybe you can just turn to uh turn there to talk about the prophecies and what they reveal of the trouble that is going to come and how God is going to reveal himself uh as true and as a conqueror for his children. Daniel 12:1 Yeah. Even before Daniel 12:1, if you read Daniel 11, it's just a host of this king versus that king. He overthrows this king. They form some alliances. The alliances are broken um because of treachery or deceit or vengeance or anger. And it's back and forth, back and forth, back and forth up until we are told verse uh 12:1, Michael stands up. And the great prince who stands for the children of the people, there's a great time of trouble such as never was. And at that time, God's people shall be delivered, everyone that is found written in the book of life. So how wonderful that is for gospel to have that hope that we know that in so far as we're walking with Jesus Christ with our names in the book of life we are secure. It's not for us to have that fear that constant fear that oh no what may happen. We have a a a sure hope the time of trouble is is is coming. Even presently we know that there are many challenges. We know that um the spirit of prophecy told us that that um the nations are angry presently and we know that the h the time of God's judgment that is the finality and the completion of God's judgment is is is near at hand. But but even as we await all these things to to to transpire, we can have faith that that God has promised a present support and future u salvation from the from the troubles that that attend all of God's people. Amen. Amen. You know, uh my brother, my sister, as you're watching us, the Bible does tell us that a time of trouble is coming upon the face of this earth. It is the kind of trouble that we have never seen. We cannot even imagine how it will be. You know there's a quotation in great controversy where Ellen White writes and says that that time of trouble will be so great that usually trouble is it it is bigger how we imagine in anticipation in anticipation. It is bigger in anticipation than in reality. But this one even the anticipation will be lower than the reality. But the Bible in the book of Psalms 46 tells us that something that is very interesting. It says the Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. That the same way Jacob over came in his time of trouble when he was he was so confused because he was about to meet Esau and he thought Esau is coming to rage war with you. If you just think of what's in his mind like he has left what he has left what he thinks is in his mind like he thinks people think he has stolen some property right so he has so he can't go back he has yeah he has so like like he feels he has made a mess there who was a crafty uncle a crafty uncle and then now he he knows in front of him are armies and troops yeah and so so he's in a state where he knows that basically tomorrow I die basically and all I can rely upon is simply that the protection that comes from God. And that is why you could see that he so tenaciously held on to the Lord up until morning. Imagine fighting all night up until morning. Amen. And the Lord was there to to comfort him and to tell him that all will be well. Amen. A present help. It's not He's not just a help. He's present. He's right there very close to us. He was a present help. And you know the Bible is very keen to say something. He says during this time of trouble, God does not identify himself as the God of Daniel, a perfect man, excellent in all his ways or as the God of Jesus Christ, perfect and holy. He does not even identify himself as the God of Israel because Jacob's name was changed to Israel. He identifies himself as the God of a man who was was once a suppler, a sinner, a liar. He identifies himself as as with a man who was violent, cheated his family, cheated his cheated his father, cheated his brother. And yet God says, "I am the God of Jacob." To just remind you, if however sinful you may think you may, it may have been in your past. God says, "I will be your present help." Because he says the sinner converted, I am their present help. Even during that time of trouble, even during that time of difficulty, God is going to be our present help. My brother, I just want to bring you in here. I want you to just um take us further into the experience of Jacob and then tell tell us what is that hope that we shall have during the time of trouble spoken of in the book of Revelation and what is God's intention and Daniel and what is our hope? Indeed, um, Monday speaks about in the midst of all the turmoil, in the midst of all the difficulties, uh, whether internal and external, because sometimes more often than not, what prophecy deals with it, it helps us to understand our external world. But then beyond that, the power of the gospel is that it helps us to understand our internal world and to organize it. And so, uh, it may be that perhaps, um, you may not have external turmoil as of yet, but internally you may be having a lot of, um, experiences, a lot of things that you're going through, you know, things that you're struggling with and and and nonetheless, we're told that hopper bounds whether internally or externally amidst the turmoil. amidst the turmoil. And so uh we are asked to once again uh consider Psalms 46 which tells us about how the physical earth will be deeply affected by Christ's return. And uh we also know that Christ's return is not we don't we not only affect the rocks and the ocean but also the grand climax of arts history means the breakdown of worldly kingdoms and indeed we are called to consider and meditate on the words of Jeremiah 4 23-26 and I will read from the King James version and it says and I beheld the earth and low it was without form and void and the heavens and they had no light. I beheld the mountains and lo, they trembled and all the hills moved lightly. Verse 25 says, "And I beheld and lo, there was no man, and all the birds of the heaven were fled." Verse 26 says, "And I beheld and lo the fruitful place was a wilderness, and all the cities thereof were broken down at the presence of the Lord and by his fierce anger." It's interesting. I remember we were having a conversation at some point about developed nations and developing nations and how cities when you when you when you move from city to city, there are pretty cities out there, you know, and and I remember sometimes when you when you go up uh a pedestal and then you can be able to for example have like a Mount Pisa moment where you're on a high point and you can be able to view the city and see the power of man uh man's man's mind when man applies his mind through science. an industry, how what he can generate and what he can create? But at the back of your mind, uh you wonder and ask yourself, has this city accepted God? You know, do these people uh know that the end of it all is with a is with fire and with brimstone and and and and with with with great with great uh with with with with a with a great um falling and everything indeed will be without form and um and and and void. almost going back to the way the world was uh in Genesis uh chapter 1 and verse one. And so it speaks to us and tells us that um the Bible not only tells us what will happen in the world but also the vision of Daniel chapter 7. It speaks to us about kingdoms rising and we saw all these kingdoms try to be better than their predecessors. But this one thing is clear. kingdoms rise and they fall and another will rise in itsstead. You know, the same way we say if you're fired today or if you die, somebody else will take your place. And so such such is life. And and and and ultimately the great questions of life that is the questions of human suffering, of human worth, of human value and and and uh these great questions still remain unanswered. the question of suffering, the question of sin and sinfulness and guilt. When will all this end? You know, each succeeding kingdom persecuted, each succeeding kingdom uh caused some turmoil amongst the amongst the children of God. But in in the midst of it all, we're told none of the kingdoms shown to Daniel proved to be a secure home for God's people. Though some were better than others, some prospered uh the children of God prospered in in other regimes than in others. As is always even in the lifespan of a country, they come leaders who are better and there are others who people cry more, you know. And so at the end of it all, is a solution another president? Is a solution another king? Is a solution something better? But the Bible speaks to us and tells us that the true solution, the true hope amidst all this turmoil isn't another human messiah, but rather the perfect Messiah, the only true Messiah, that is Christ Jesus, our Lord and our Savior and his second coming. It has so much power. Indeed, the book of Philippians chapter 3 and verse 20, we're told, "But we know that we have citizenship in the kingdom of God." Amen. You see, uh, as Jacob was going through his time of trouble, uh, as he's agonizing, lo and behold, who came to comfort him? Who came and changed his name? It is Christ. It is Christ who walks into our darkness. It is Christ who walks into our disasters. It is Christ who walks into our turmoils. And through those experiences, he who was known as Jacob, a thief, a suppler, his name was changed to Israel. one who has wrestled with God and has become victorious. And this and the key of his of getting victory in God isn't that he was stronger than God. No, it was in that he surrendered. And in his surrender, he refused to let go of God. He said, "I will not let go of him until he blesses me." Amen. In the midst of our turmoil, in the midst of our midnight, in the midst of our difficulties, both external and internal, let us surrender ourselves to God and equally hold on to him. Don't despair. Don't give up. There is hope amidst the turmoil. There is light at the end of the tunnel. One himwriter says, "It's the darkest just before the dawn." And so uh in the midst of all the difficulties, all the vicissitudes of life, all regardless of in which ocean, which sees your this your your your boat in in in this in life may be sailing. Maybe some for some it may be a time of smoothness, but you could the sea could be calm, but you're in the boat and you have seasickness. You're throwing up, you know. And sometimes it could be that the sea is also rough, you know. So internal and external chaos. In the midst of it all, Christ is the answer. And Christ gives us this hope. Scripture doesn't lie to us that in this world we will have tribulation. The scripture doesn't lie to us that the closing scenes of this world aren't as men preach to us. uh the prosperity ministers do a disservice to the children of God in not preparing them to meet the trials and the difficulties that are there for us. True. You know, we should be preparing for Jacob's time of trouble. And the best way to prepare is by practicing immediate surrender today and now. Practicing a faith that doesn't give up in the midst of the difficulties that we have today and now. And with this practice through the turmoils that we have then indeed hope will spring eternal. Amen. Amen. And my friends the hope here is truly that Christ will be with us. But beyond that it is what he is preparing for his children. That today indeed this may look like kingdoms. You see the book of Daniel says that when they were rising up, they don't just rise up slowly and you say, "Oh, I can see we have a new king. We have a president, but they rise up." The Bible says that he saw that there the winds, the four winds of the corners of the earth were were blowing and they were striving in the great sea for each kingdom to rise up. There was war. There was bloodshed. And even today you can see the striving of different kingdoms. As each kingdom looks for supremacy over another kingdom, there's a lot of striving. There's a lot of blushing. There's a lot of chaos that goes on today. And so what is the hope for the Christian is that oh the Lord has prepared a land which no eye seen, no ear has heard. The things that the Lord has prepared for his children, the new heavens and the new earth. That is where our citizenship is. As my brother pointed out that these kingdoms may rage but indeed there is a new heaven awaiting us. You know Ellen White writes and says that heaven is cheap enough. If you think there's a lot of trouble in these kingdoms, let me assure you even this one that is h going on today. People think oh maybe we will continue on forever. Babylon will rise up and tell you do not be deceived. Even I thought I was mighty but I fell. You think oh we're going to continue much longer. This is the greatest time we have ever lived. Oh let me tell you midopia will rise up and tell you. We also thought that was us until we saw one coming very fast and swept us out and Greece arose. And even one thought oh Alexander the great so young so amazing. Maybe Greece will rule forever. Greece will rise up and tell you it is a lie. Rome will tell you it is a lie that even these kingdoms we have in this world the Bible guarantees us as in Daniel chapter 2 that great stone that is cut out without hands. It is going to crash that kingdom of clay and iron and these kingdoms as we see them they shall be no more. Christ in his appearing this place will be a wilderness. They will no longer continue. So we want to request you put yourself on the side of the eternal kingdom. The kingdom which Christ says once he has set it up, it will last forever. It is an everlasting kingdom. An everlasting kingdom, the new heaven, Christ preparing for you. These ones, they will all perish. Indeed. Um and in this world today, there are nations which are prosperous. M and um one thing most of this prosperous nation all um the parliamentarians and and some of the people there are speaking about an immigr an immigrant crisis you know people are looking for certain visas people are looking for certain citizenships you know you want to be a citizen of a particular people are camping in certain uh in certain embassies you know but lo and behold there are no stringent rules there are rules there but they aren stringent Christ says my yoke my yoke is easy and my burdens is light. You simply need to subscribe to the citizenship of Christ and you secure a place for yourself in the mansions up above. Yes. Amen. And you know Christ does not just promise us citizenship. Oh my goodness. It is beyond that. It is beyond that. I want us to as we consider the part um Tuesday um part under his feet for us. Please read for us um Psalm 47. Read for us verse three and verse 4. Psalm 47:3 and verse 4. It says, "He shall subdue the people under us." Mhm. And the nations under our feet. He shall choose our inheritance for us. The excellency of Jacob whom he loved. Amen. See, again, it references Jacob to just remind us that it is sinners that will inherit that land. But you know, Christ says, "I am going to give you something more than just mere citizenship. I will give you ownership. I will give you an inheritance. You know the Bible writes and says in the book of Revelation 3 21 that Christ himself gives his people a promise. He says he that overcomes he will sit with me on my right hand even as I overcame and I am sat down with my father in his right hand. Essentially what Christ says, we will sit on his throne. By the do you know that today Christ is seated on on on the father's throne. He has not yet sat on his throne. He has not yet today he's a high priest. If he sits on a throne, it is his father's throne. He says I am sitting on my father's throne. But says when you shall come, I will sit on my throne. And let me tell you, you will also sit with me on my throne. And what does that mean? We will rule with him. It is beyond citizenship. It is let me tell you even today in this in in many countries people struggle to own land. People are evicted from places that they have lived for many years. Land is snatched from their rightful owners. Christ says the place where I am preparing for you. You will not only own it, you will rule over it. In the book of Obadiah verse 21, we are given the vision of Christ. First of all, Obadia speaks about the great controversy of Christ coming to take over the land of the hem, the land of Esau as it is called. And once he has done that, we see Christ on Mount Zion. But he is not alone. Obadiah verse 21 tells us that he is with saviors. He's with small people who have been delivered. Saviors with a small s. people who have been delivered, Jacob's sinners who were once sinners, but grace abounded and they were saved and they are now ruling with Christ on Mount Zion. The Bible writes and says that Christ, God promised Christ in the book of Hebrews chapter 1. Hebrews chapter one, the Bible writes and says in verse 13, "But to which of the angels said he at any time sit on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy foottool." This is Christ's heritage that his enemies will be his foottool. But Christ says, "This I will not share it alone. I will share it with my beloved, with those who struggled with sin and now they are saved. They will reign with me. They will reign with me on Mount Zion. My brother, I just want you to give us a comment about Christ's promise of giving us this inheritance and us reigning on Mount Zion with him at least his enemies being under his foot. Indeed uh Christ uh gives this assurance that generally the things of this world will pass. The things of this world will pass and eventually the gospel will will um will will be victorious. I'd like to recall uh John 14 when Christ is going and he he he tells his disciples as he's living in John 14 uh from verse one 1 2 3 and he says uh he says the following uh let me just I can I I have it in my head but it's good to to read. It says let not your hearts be troubled ye believe in God. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe also in me. You know, he's telling them as in he's telling them let their hearts not to be troubled. You just believe in God. You know, believe also in him. Then he contin says, "In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, I would have told you. I go and prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, what does he say? I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am there ye may be also. He's painting a picture that all these enemies all these things that happen they inconsequential. Just relax. Go through the motions. Pass through the motions. Let not your hearts be troubled. And then in the vision of Daniel chapter 2 where Nebuchadnezzar is dreaming about this this this statue, what happens? A stone that is cut out without the without the hands of man does what? Hits this statue at its feet and then what what happens? Crashes it into dust and then a wind does what? Blows it away. And then what happens to the stone? It grows into a huge mountain and there the people of God find settlement. Christ through prophecy, Christ through his own words comes over and over again and is telling us that indeed under his wings we can safely abide and ultimately all the kingdoms of this world all the rulers of this world will be put under his feet. Amen. For us to be at Jesus' feet, we can be there as those who are conquered or we can be there like Mary Magdalene as the recipients of grace. Amen. And I know today there are people like Nebuchadnezzar who when they hear that these kingdoms will not last, they want to say no, no, no, no, there's no way. They set up their own image of of of gold and because of their pride, they think that they will rule forever. Please talk to us about those who exalt themselves and the judgment that God is going to bring to this world even as we consider the Wednesday part, wine and blood. Thank you. And for the Wednesday part um reading Psalm 75, I would actually like to read this uh uh the translation that's found in um uh in NIV because of how clear it is. Um uh the level of clarity that I found when I was reading it was actually quite eye opening. And so um reading from Psalms Psalm 75 and it says uh for the director of music to the tune do not destroy a psalm of Asaf a song. We praise you oh God. We praise you for your name is near. People tell of your wonderful deeds. You say, "I choose the appointed time. It is I who judge with equity." When the earth and all the people quake, it is I who hold its pillars firm. To the arrogant, I say, boast no more. To the wicked, do not lift up your horns. Do not lift up your horns against heaven. Do not speak so defiantly. No one from the east. And actually, I like it in verse um in King James. It says promotion cometh not from the east or from the west or or h and the desert or from the desert. It is God who judges. Verse seven, he brings one down and he exalts another. Verse eight, in the hand of the Lord is a cup full of foaming wine mixed with spices. He pours his it out and all the wicked of the earth drink it down to its very dregs. As for me, I will declare this forever. I will sing praise to the God of Jacob who says, "I will cut off the horns of all the wicked, but the horns of the righteous will be lifted up." Amen. This is actually um a grand proclamation about what God does to the wicked and how God deals with that great sin of pride. We are told in verse six, "Promotion cometh not from the east and from the west. It is God who judges. He brings one down and he exalts another." How it's interesting how humility is h is is is at the very center of the gospel. We know that the mystery of godliness in second Timothy is what when God came down and became a man. In Philippians 2 5 it continues and says he became uh he he took the form even of a servant. And then it continues saying that he died the most um ignominious and ignorable death. the death of the cross which at that time was the most shameful the most shameful death and on the other hand we are told in 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 of the mystery of iniquity that it is a system that takes up itself and claims to be to be God and that is is is h in Psalm 75 concerning these two natures that nature that desires pride and self-exaltation versus the nature that desires humility and humility even a a a taking upon itself the the nature of Jesus Christ the character and the life of Jesus Christ that to the proud God utterly destroys and to the humble God exalts. We live in a day uh today where everyone claims to be God in a sense because everyone claims that they're living in accordance with their own means with their own ideas means more like their own ideas with their own principles. To each of those unfortunately those who claim to be their own god who claim not to worship and to follow the systems of heaven and heavenly laws and heavenly principles. Unfortunately, God's condemnation is clear that he we have spoken of mercy. Um and and and and we know God actually does h extend his mercy greatly to all his people. But there's a point when mercy lingers no more and the judgment comes and to and to such people we know that that wine will be will will be drunk. We are told in verse eight to the very ds completely and entirely. Amen. The wine of the judgment of God representing the judgment of God will be will will will be consumed fully upon the those people who are the wicked. Amen. You know the Bible tells us that Christ holds two cups in the book of Matthew 26 just before he was about to be crucified. He gave a particular cup to his disciples. That cup reminds us of his humiliation, of his humility. That cup reminds us of what Christ was willing to do to come down to shed his blood for the sake of his people. And he says it, if you choose to humble yourself and drink of that cup, then you will not drink of the cup I have prepared later on for those who defy me. For those because of their pride do not desire to worship me. The Bible tells us in the book of Revelation chapter 14 that that cup that cup is f filled with wrath. Um and it does not have any mixture of grace. Two cups either you drink the cup of humility or the cup of because of pride lifted up the people who receive the mark of the beast because they say we will worship on our own day. We do not care what the Bible says. people who are very who are lifted up. They do not want to follow the instructions of God but want to follow their own ways. Today God still lays out and extends that cup to us every time and reminds us it is either the leadership of the cross or the leadership of the individuals who want to be led by themselves. My brother, I want us to go into the Thursday part. And because of this, because truly we also do not desire to see the the the wicked being destroyed, though we look forward to the judgment of God, which is fair and equitable. How shall we be as Christians knowing that indeed God shall judge? How shall we be as Christians? Even as we consider the Thursday part of the lesson, indeed um the Bible tells us that indeed God will judge. I remember uh in the context of uh as we were speaking about under his feet and I remember um Psalms 110 and verse and verse one, the Bible records and says, "The Lord says unto my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a foottool for your feet." In 1 Corinthians chapter 15:4-27, uh Paul writes in the same theme and he says, "Then the end will come when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father after he has destroyed all dominion, authority, and power." Amen. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. Amen. The last enemy to be destroyed is what? Is death. For God has put everything under his feet. And um again also the same theme is echoed in Ephesians chapter 1 vers 2022. It says God raised Christ from the dead and sat him at his right hand in the heavenly realms far above all rule and authority, power and dominion. And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church. Amen. So the Bible is simply telling us that indeed in Christ our victory is secure. In Christ, all the things of this world, all the kingdoms of this world are under his feet. But then the question is, have the nations had this? Do they have the nations had the good news that that that salvation has come? You know, um there's that hymn um that says, "We have heard a mighty sound. Jesus saves." Jesus saves. Tell to sinners far and wide. Jesus saves. Jesus saves. shout salvation full of full and free have the people heard. David writes in Psalm 67 borrowing from the same and he says God be merciful unto us and bless us and cause his face to shine upon us. Godan says that thy way may be known among the earth thy saving health among all the nations. Let the people praise thee oh God. Let all the people praise thee. Oh let the nations be glad and sing for joy. For thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon the earth. Let the people praise thee, oh God. Let the people praise thee. It's almost like a chorus, you know. And he continu says, then shall the earth yield her increase and God, even our own God shall bless us. Says, God shall bless us and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. It's a hymn of praise helping us to understand that in the end under his wings we are safe in the end if we accept God's mercy. God David begins pleading for mercy. God be merciful unto us. He's speaking uh for all of us for you and me. And he says, "May we experience the mercy of God and beyond that may we also experience his hand of blessing and beyond that may he cause his face to shine upon us. Why? That the way may be known that his way may be known in all the earth and his saving health among all the nations." We are given this uh responsibility as Christians to experience God's mercy and his blessing. And ultimately in experiencing his mercy and his blessings, we through our lives, our lives are a sort of theater to the world in which we able to declare the ways of the Lord and he where yes, even his saving mercy, his health, he's saving health amongst all the nations. And David is also speaking to us and telling us that if we trust in God, if we trust in God, what will happen? Bible says the nations will be glad and sing for joy because God will judge how righteously. You know, righteousness is a cry for the people of this world today. We everybody everywhere is asking for righteousness. Where can I find justice? As you said, some people's land has been taken away. Some people's opportunities have been taken away. their dreams have been smashed. They they they they they thought that where they would be right now and where they they are is is is different. And they asking for justice. They're crying for justice. But the Bible says God will give the people justice. And he will rule and govern the nations upon the earth. And it contin her increase. Even the earth will respond. that when a good ruler is in place, even the nations respond. Amen. The economy, the earth in itself agriculturally, we develop. We develop and there's no greater king. There's no greater ruler who is worthy than this God. Uh and therefore is David is play is pleading and asking that God indeed will be able to take the will. Amen. Isaiah 56 and:7 he writes and says even them I will bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Amen. The burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations nations. Amen. God intends my brothers and my sisters that we reflect his light to the rest of the world. You know, and this is a task that was given to the children of Israel. And it's a task that is even given to us today. David reminds us in this psalm that God wants his way to be known in the earth, his salvation amongst the nations. And therefore, unfortunately, in the history of Israel, more often than not, they failed. The question is, in this final hours of of the earth, will his salvation be made known? It's a question that calls us to introspect and ask ourselves, how are we living our lives? Have we experienced the mercy of God? Have we experienced his salvation? And if we have, are we making it known? Are we declaring it? You know, it is our privilege to experience his mercy. It is our privilege to be raised from sinners and to be elevated to saints because all saints were once sinners. We have we must experience the mercy of God. We must experience his hand of blessing. We must see his saving health in our lives and we shall be able to declare it in all the earth and amongst the nations. The question for us this day is as the himw writer once again says will we surrender to this savior to his scepter humbly bow. We too shall come to know his favor. He will save us and save us now. Amen. And I especially like that illustration that was used um uh in the lesson about this u um element that has been developed in MIT that once when when it is painted on any object any light that shines upon it cannot be reflected. It absorbs all the light because it is extremely dark. And I just asked myself, could it be that some of us have become so black, so dark like this object? Even when God shines his face upon us, people do not see anything. There's not, we are completely invisible, we become probably proud and arrogant and we have been set in our ways that even as God is continuing to shine his light of mercy, we are we cannot the world cannot see anything. But the Bible has promised you know Psalm 56 the context is very beautiful in verse six the the B when verse 7 says even them will I bring the them part there is referenced in verse six it says it is the sons of the strangers strangers from Israel but if they obey my law I will bring them in. In verse eight it says that beyond even the outcasts of Israel I will bring even other outcasts. Those the world has considered outcasts. I will bring them in. But how will they hear if no one preaches to them? How will they know if they have not read? How will they believe if no one has told them? We need to allow our light to shine. I don't know. You are very passionate about chapency and light shining. If you'd want to add a comment here. Yeah, my comment is just about um especially for chaplain being the best time for God's people, young people who have a desire for the truth to receive these messages, the message of the judgment and of mercy. the wonderful contrast that we have been um going through the the world being um enraged and and in conflict God's people being at peace. The the the challenge between those ones who are reigning presently and those who will reign when Christ comes. The conflict between those ones who are proud and will be humbled and those who are humble and will be exalted. God's people wants those ones who will be his humble people, those who will reign in the world to come, those ones who will submit to the Lord Jesus Christ even today. Amen. Amen. Amen. As we close there, I would like my brother to pray with us. Um, thank you for joining us today. I pray and hope that you have been blessed. Let's believe and pray. Our kind and loving father and master art in heaven, we humbly come before you this blessed day. We are thankful oh Lord for the wonderful ways in which even through the thumbs through poetry we find opportunity to quell our toils both within and without. And ultimately you've told us that at the end of it all you reign victorious. You reign supreme and every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that you are our lord and our savior Jesus Christ is king of kings and lord of lords. Now dear Lord, this particular Sabbath day we prostrate ourselves to you this day. Dear Lord we believe help our unbelief. Help us to reflect this light. But before that dear Lord help us to see the light, accept it, assimilate it and be the light is a most humble prayer. Believing and trusting in you. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. God bless you. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[8.0s] Praise God and happy Sabbath. Thank you
[10.7s] so much for joining us today as we study
[13.9s] the Sabbath school lesson for this week,
[16.7s] Psalms part two. Last week we considered
[19.4s] Psalm part one and I'm excited to be uh
[22.1s] studying with you as we diving into this
[24.3s] lesson. Today is chaplain Sabbath and
[27.4s] you are welcome to worship with us here
[29.5s] at New Life 7th Day Adventist Church,
[32.0s] Fifth Gong Avenue. I am joined by my
[35.0s] friends uh to study with us this lesson.
[37.4s] I would like them to introduce
[38.7s] themselves and we will pray even before
[41.1s] we begin. Um we can start from your end
[44.2s] my brother. My name is Enongo Rafa. It's
[46.6s] a pleasure to be with you this Sabbath.
[48.3s] Amen. Thank you so much. And my husband?
[50.7s] Yes. My name is Jafet Rono. Uh actually
[53.2s] with regard to the chapency program um I
[56.7s] I guess we can discuss after the prayer.
[58.8s] Thank you. All right. Thank you so much
[61.5s] for joining us as well. I would like us
[63.1s] to pray and then we can uh uh start.
[66.3s] Maybe you can start and pray with us.
[67.9s] Okay. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we
[70.6s] thank you for the opportunity you've
[71.8s] given us to do this uh study into Psalms
[74.6s] uh uh part two. We are always grateful
[77.4s] for the opportunity uh to interact
[80.2s] virtually um with so many of our friends
[83.0s] who are similarly Bible students. Bless
[85.0s] us and fill us with your spirit. In
[86.8s] Jesus name I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen.
[89.0s] Amen. For those who may not be familiar
[91.5s] with what chapency program may look
[93.9s] like. New Life Seventh Day Adventist
[95.8s] Church has a very vibrant chaplet
[98.0s] program which involves ministering in
[100.5s] prisons, ministering in high schools,
[102.4s] ministering to the communities around us
[104.9s] and particularly in the high schools
[107.5s] around us and we have seen over the over
[110.8s] many years great impact in those high
[114.1s] schools. I want just to start um with
[116.4s] brother Rafael to just give us his own
[118.7s] experience because I know he was
[120.5s] baptized when he was in high school of
[122.7s] the impact of chapency in his life even
[125.8s] as we invite you to join us for this
[127.6s] chapency Sabbath today. Indeed, chaplain
[131.0s] uh has been a powerful influence in my
[133.4s] life and u even after finishing high
[135.7s] school we and myself and a couple of my
[138.6s] friends uh from the faith we paid it
[141.3s] back and we in we also likewise became
[144.6s] chaplain and visited and I can tell you
[147.3s] um chapency and chaplain makes a whole
[151.2s] lot of difference for students when when
[153.6s] the Sabbath comes in because sometimes
[155.6s] it's difficult to um to fellowship ship
[158.9s] amongst yourselves because you're both
[160.7s] green, you're both struggling perhaps
[162.6s] with the same things. You know, you're
[164.4s] having issues, you're having squables,
[166.2s] but when the the chaplain steps in then
[168.5s] there's a neutral figure, a figure with
[170.4s] experience, a figure with with with with
[172.6s] learning and who can guide and and it's
[175.0s] it's wonderful and it's powerful. I can
[177.5s] I remember it was a it was through
[179.4s] chapency that we were led through elders
[182.2s] and chaplain as well through the
[184.1s] baptismal of uh studies and eventually
[187.6s] to the waters of baptism and and and and
[190.6s] its influence I can tell you was
[192.6s] wonderful. These men and women who
[195.0s] spared their time from even being with
[197.7s] their families and with their
[199.0s] congregations and and and and being in
[201.4s] their in their churches and go and stay
[203.4s] there with the students and listen to
[204.7s] the problems of students. You know,
[206.2s] sometimes it can be if you look at it in
[208.2s] retrospective, you realize you were
[209.4s] struggling with some little some strange
[211.3s] things, but nonetheless, there were
[213.0s] struggles nonetheless. But yet, there
[214.5s] were people who were patient with us and
[216.2s] they they they took time and and and and
[218.4s] they groomed us and they they set the
[220.6s] pace for all of us. They helped us to
[222.6s] understand what exactly it means to be a
[224.6s] seventh day Adventist. One thing you
[226.2s] will realize, many young people just
[228.2s] know that in their home, they go to
[231.0s] church on Saturday. And it was that
[232.6s] mindset that I remember even myself when
[234.2s] I was in high school in form one. I'd go
[236.6s] but when there events on Sabbath you'd
[238.2s] find you'd go you play rugby you'll do
[240.3s] all manner of things here and there but
[242.3s] then at some point through the chapency
[244.8s] program somebody comes and they preach
[246.7s] there are rallies people come then you
[248.9s] realize oh you start listening and then
[250.7s] you realize there's actually some
[252.8s] science to this faith there's actually
[255.8s] um what I what I would call like the
[257.7s] anatomy of believing you start
[259.7s] understanding the various parts of the
[261.3s] church and why exactly what exactly it
[263.4s] means to be a seventh day Adventist and
[265.4s] and how all these truths comes together
[267.8s] to build this one person, this one faith
[270.2s] that is the Adventist uh the seventh day
[272.5s] Adventist um church. And so even after
[274.6s] that I think I became active um as a
[277.6s] chaplain both for New Life and for the
[279.9s] high school uh where and other high
[282.5s] schools wherein I was um um I was had
[285.1s] the opportunity and the privilege and so
[286.9s] I believe um chapency is powerful. It's
[289.7s] very powerful and and and I encourage
[291.3s] all of us to be active. Amen. Amen.
[294.4s] That's wonderful. You know, and today
[295.8s] when we were walking into the church, I
[297.9s] just met a young man who uh met my
[300.6s] husband and he was he was just uh giving
[303.3s] his testimonies like I remember you when
[305.3s] I was back in high school. You came and
[307.9s] preached in our high school and I've met
[310.5s] very many other young men time and time
[312.6s] again who tell me, "Oh, I was converted
[315.1s] because your husband came and preached
[317.8s] and I was seated in that congregation in
[320.0s] high school." So just share your
[321.6s] experience maybe first your own
[323.2s] experience with chaplain he did to you
[325.9s] and then um your experience now with you
[328.6s] going back in those high schools and
[330.6s] speaking to them. Uh thank you so much.
[332.8s] Um actually um listening to Raph's um uh
[336.3s] experience is actually quite
[337.8s] enlightening because as what he
[340.2s] experienced from within um looking in
[342.5s] deeper is what I experienced from
[344.0s] without. I was not um um I grew up in a
[346.8s] home that was Christian but not 7th Day
[348.4s] Adventist. But my interaction with my
[351.0s] friends in school um drove me to join
[354.4s] the the SDA club and from there the
[356.1s] chapency team used to come and minister
[358.1s] there and actually I learned so many
[359.8s] Bible truths and I learned so much about
[361.4s] Jesus Christ about his plan for me in my
[363.8s] life about the word of God and so many
[366.2s] wonderful things. It was such a
[367.6s] revelatory experience and and just as
[370.4s] Raf was saying you know you like you get
[372.5s] that feeling that I I feel like I need
[374.1s] to give back. I received so much almost
[376.1s] fully obviously the wonderful free grace
[378.2s] but also the ministry that others have
[380.8s] sacrificed on my behalf. So I also
[382.6s] decided to to to bless others and in the
[385.0s] process was actually blessed. You it's
[387.7s] almost that when you are present there
[389.5s] interacting with people who are are um
[392.9s] are themselves seeking you end up
[394.8s] learning so much. So chapency is a
[396.6s] wonderful opportunity for the young
[398.0s] people especially as young boys and and
[401.0s] young girls, young men and young women
[402.8s] who are at the point that is extremely
[405.4s] formative when they're learning about
[407.1s] the fundamentals of life. Their minds
[409.1s] are being um molded by uh by by so many
[414.0s] experiences that they encounter. That's
[416.0s] actually the best time for them to
[417.4s] learn. Um once I was able to uh interact
[420.6s] with so many of the young people um in
[423.0s] in high schools especially for my
[424.6s] chapency h as I was growing spiritually
[427.1s] I really felt that I was um helping so
[429.7s] many others understand why it is we
[431.8s] believe what we believe there's a
[433.5s] there's there's unfortunately um a
[435.4s] scarcity that chapency offers and
[437.9s] provides so liberally. So I very much
[440.5s] encourage everyone to at the very least
[443.0s] even try and understand if not
[444.6s] participate and and help support this
[447.0s] chapency ministry which uh I feel so
[449.7s] fundamentally is God blessed and God
[452.1s] breathed. Amen. Amen. And you know the
[455.4s] Bible says that heaven rejoices and the
[458.9s] angels celebrate when one soul comes to
[462.5s] Christ. Today in New Life Seven Day
[464.6s] Adventist Church, we are going to
[466.3s] witness not one, not two, but
[470.0s] about 150 students from high school.
[473.1s] Amen. Being baptized today, the impact
[475.5s] of the chaplain program. If you're
[478.2s] seated at home and you're watching us
[479.8s] and you'd like to volunteer, you'd like
[481.6s] to support this program, please reach
[483.6s] out to us. There are many ways, there's
[485.3s] a lot of work still to be done. reach
[487.4s] out to New Life Seven Day Adventist
[489.3s] Church to see how you can participate in
[491.9s] impacting the lives of these young
[494.6s] people. Quite exciting to watch that and
[497.6s] behold it today. We welcome you to join
[499.8s] us even as we celebrate with them as we
[502.6s] see the kingdom of of of the devil being
[506.2s] shaken today as young men and women come
[510.3s] to Christ Jesus. I want us now to go
[513.1s] into the lesson discussion. We are
[515.8s] studying Psalms part two. And you know,
[518.6s] we've been looking at what what was
[521.1s] God's intention when he was revealing um
[524.3s] to us um his plan and unraveling his
[527.4s] plan to his children in these last days.
[530.7s] And he had hidden these things in
[533.0s] symbols and in figures, but he has made
[535.9s] them known to his children. Those who
[538.5s] have chosen to do his will, he he has
[541.4s] indeed revealed his doctrine. And we
[543.9s] have looked at C symbols in the book of
[546.1s] Revelation, in the book of Daniel. But
[548.6s] today we are not just we are going to go
[550.6s] beyond those symbols and we are going to
[552.5s] look at some of the fundamental issues
[555.0s] that Christ wants to address things that
[558.3s] we don't think that probably the
[560.1s] prophecies address but primarily God
[563.1s] wants to address the issue of sin. What
[565.9s] is God going to do with sinners? When is
[569.1s] going God going to end this controversy
[572.3s] between him and the devil? The issue of
[575.6s] judgment. When will God rise up and
[577.7s] judge? And you know sometimes we start
[579.4s] out, we stand up and we cry out to God
[581.8s] and we ask God like Habacook once ask
[584.4s] God for how long will you sit and watch
[587.6s] this evil going on? Well, for how long
[590.2s] will you watch this evil continuing on
[592.8s] on this earth? And maybe someone today
[595.2s] is also crying and asking the same
[597.3s] question. the book of Daniel and the
[599.3s] book of revelation. They give us those
[601.8s] answers, but they are especially
[604.0s] revealed in the book of Psalms in a very
[606.4s] endearing way that I want us to look at
[609.2s] today. And I want us to start with God
[612.2s] being a very present help in the time of
[614.9s] trouble. Brother Jaff, just take us
[617.4s] through the book of Psalm 46 and God's
[620.0s] promise as he's ending this controversy.
[623.0s] What is his plan with his people? Amen.
[626.7s] Um, we understand full well that we do
[629.4s] not live in paradise. We do not live in
[631.7s] a world that you expect God's principles
[634.2s] and God's laws as wonderful as they are
[636.4s] to be kept. We know that in this world
[638.3s] there's so much chaos and commotion. Um,
[641.1s] sometimes um we are watching it from
[643.9s] afar, watching it from close. Other
[645.7s] times we are actually present in it. We
[648.8s] um you know uh we know in the scriptures
[651.3s] um Jesus Christ in the book of Matthew
[653.0s] 24 speaking of wars and rumors of wars
[655.4s] to this very day we know that uh in the
[658.0s] news media there there's there's one new
[661.4s] conflict one new catastrophe one new
[664.4s] trouble you know even um internally
[666.9s] there are issues of strife sometimes
[669.0s] even uh difficulties financially
[671.3s] resulting maybe from you know uh burdens
[673.9s] that are are are very difficult to bear.
[676.7s] We ask ourselves where is God in all of
[679.0s] this? And the answer actually is found
[681.2s] very wonderfully in the book of Psalms
[683.3s] 46. We are told and I'm reading from
[685.7s] King James and you may follow with me
[687.4s] from your own uh translations friends.
[689.8s] Uh Psalm 46 uh verse one. It says, "God
[693.8s] is our refuge and our strength, a very
[696.8s] present help in trouble. Therefore will
[701.1s] um will not we fear. uh though the earth
[704.4s] be removed and though the mountains be
[706.3s] carried into the midst of the sea. So
[709.0s] what is uh uh uh uh the scripture saying
[712.4s] here? What is David saying? David is
[715.0s] saying that the reason why God can be
[718.1s] our very uh uh great help and refuge is
[721.2s] precisely um h sorry the reason why we
[724.0s] need not fear is precisely because we
[726.0s] trust in a God who uh h is in the midst
[729.4s] of his people. uh verse five and
[732.2s] therefore h Zion and Israel and God's
[735.9s] people shall not be moved that God has a
[738.6s] desire to give his people peace in the
[740.6s] time of trouble. God is not going to
[742.4s] pluck us out of the world which is full
[744.8s] of conflict. Even Jesus Christ said that
[747.5s] um what when he was praying he says I
[749.9s] pray that you take them not out of the
[752.7s] world but you keep them from the evil
[756.0s] one. And how was that? by the promise he
[757.8s] gave of the Holy Spirit being sent to
[760.1s] his people. God being present. Verse
[762.8s] five, God being in the midst of her. God
[765.4s] being in the midst of his people is that
[768.3s] true source of peace and calm and
[770.9s] serenity that God's people can actually
[773.0s] rely upon you and I friend even today.
[775.8s] And that is the wonderful it's it's
[778.6s] almost the it's it's it's great news
[781.0s] that is so simple and yet so deep. Again
[784.2s] as we are continuing uh uh we see a
[786.6s] contrast that David brings. He says the
[789.4s] heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved.
[792.3s] He uttered his voice and the earth
[794.4s] melted. Again speaking of of of the
[797.2s] finality with which he will bring a a an
[800.5s] end to all the conflicts but we are told
[803.1s] the heathen raged. God's people we are
[806.0s] told the command is verse 10 be still.
[809.4s] Verse six the heathen rage. Verse 10
[811.4s] gospel be still. The expectation is not
[815.2s] that that that we act
[817.6s] irrationally and that we act almost like
[820.4s] we are have out of body experiences as
[822.6s] we're walking out in this world. H
[825.3s] acting as if um uh we are unconcerned
[828.6s] with the troubles around us but God is
[830.7s] telling us to be still. The promises of
[832.8s] verse five that God is in the midst of
[834.9s] her of verse one God is our refuge and
[837.8s] therefore we will not fear. Those
[839.7s] promises are to those with whom the
[841.8s] world has the heathen raging. The e even
[845.6s] today sometimes there even a a thoughts
[848.7s] you know oh oh no um e some calamity is
[852.8s] arising. Oh no the pandemic that we
[855.4s] experienced a few years ago is coming
[857.0s] back. Oh no uh uh even we're on the
[859.8s] verge of of a great world war world war
[862.3s] II that will even eclipse the first and
[864.6s] the second world war. But all that
[866.6s] doesn't matter to God's people who can
[868.8s] stay calm and be at ease and recognize
[871.6s] that we can have the hope of Christ's
[873.8s] return first presently Christ present
[876.2s] with us in the personal of the Holy
[878.0s] Spirit and Christ's ultimate return.
[880.2s] These things resting in our hearts can
[882.3s] take from us all fear that we have of
[884.8s] any trouble that even the enemy even the
[888.0s] world around us all things may be
[889.7s] threatening upon us. Amen. Amen. You
[892.3s] know the Bible speaks in the book of
[894.6s] Daniel of a time of trouble that will
[897.5s] come. Maybe you can just turn to uh turn
[900.0s] there to talk about the prophecies and
[903.0s] what they reveal of the trouble that is
[905.0s] going to come and how God is going to
[907.0s] reveal himself uh as true and as a
[909.8s] conqueror for his children. Daniel 12:1
[913.2s] Yeah. Even before Daniel 12:1, if you
[916.1s] read Daniel 11, it's just a host of this
[918.6s] king versus that king. He overthrows
[920.6s] this king. They form some alliances. The
[923.1s] alliances are broken um because of
[925.8s] treachery or deceit or vengeance or
[928.1s] anger. And it's back and forth, back and
[930.0s] forth, back and forth up until we are
[932.6s] told verse uh 12:1, Michael stands up.
[936.7s] And the great prince who stands for the
[938.4s] children of the people, there's a great
[940.2s] time of trouble such as never was. And
[942.9s] at that time, God's people shall be
[945.4s] delivered, everyone that is found
[947.4s] written in the book of life. So how
[951.0s] wonderful that is for gospel to have
[952.9s] that hope that we know that in so far as
[955.5s] we're walking with Jesus Christ with our
[957.4s] names in the book of life we are secure.
[959.8s] It's not for us to have that fear that
[961.8s] constant fear that oh no what may
[963.5s] happen. We have a a a sure hope the time
[966.5s] of trouble is is is coming. Even
[968.8s] presently we know that there are many
[970.2s] challenges. We know that um the spirit
[972.2s] of prophecy told us that that um the
[975.4s] nations are angry presently and we know
[978.4s] that the h the time of God's judgment
[981.2s] that is the finality and the completion
[983.3s] of God's judgment is is is near at hand.
[987.2s] But but even as we await all these
[989.1s] things to to to transpire, we can have
[992.1s] faith that that God has promised a
[995.1s] present support and future u salvation
[999.0s] from the from the troubles that that
[1001.4s] attend all of God's people. Amen. Amen.
[1004.7s] You know, uh my brother, my sister, as
[1007.6s] you're watching us, the Bible does tell
[1010.1s] us that a time of trouble is coming upon
[1012.9s] the face of this earth. It is the kind
[1015.0s] of trouble that we have never seen. We
[1017.8s] cannot even imagine how it will be. You
[1020.2s] know there's a quotation in great
[1021.7s] controversy where Ellen White writes and
[1023.8s] says that that time of trouble will be
[1026.2s] so great that usually trouble is it it
[1029.4s] is bigger how we imagine in anticipation
[1032.4s] in anticipation. It is bigger in
[1034.2s] anticipation than in reality. But this
[1037.0s] one even the anticipation will be lower
[1039.8s] than the reality. But the Bible in the
[1042.5s] book of Psalms 46 tells us that
[1045.0s] something that is very interesting. It
[1047.1s] says the Lord of hosts is with us. The
[1050.6s] God of Jacob is our refuge. That the
[1054.9s] same way Jacob over came in his time of
[1058.4s] trouble when he was he was so confused
[1061.7s] because he was about to meet Esau and he
[1064.0s] thought Esau is coming to rage war with
[1066.4s] you. If you just think of what's in his
[1067.8s] mind like he has left what he has left
[1070.3s] what he thinks is in his mind like he
[1073.3s] thinks people think he has stolen some
[1074.9s] property right so he has so he can't go
[1077.5s] back he has yeah he has so like like he
[1080.1s] feels he has made a mess there who was a
[1081.8s] crafty uncle a crafty uncle and then now
[1084.2s] he he knows in front of him are armies
[1087.0s] and troops yeah and so so he's in a
[1089.9s] state where he knows that basically
[1091.7s] tomorrow I die basically and all I can
[1094.5s] rely upon is simply
[1096.4s] that the protection that comes from God.
[1099.0s] And that is why you could see that he so
[1101.0s] tenaciously held on to the Lord up until
[1104.2s] morning. Imagine fighting all night up
[1106.1s] until morning. Amen. And the Lord was
[1108.1s] there to to comfort him and to tell him
[1111.3s] that all will be well. Amen. A present
[1114.5s] help. It's not He's not just a help.
[1116.9s] He's present. He's right there very
[1119.1s] close to us. He was a present help. And
[1121.4s] you know the Bible is very keen to say
[1123.4s] something. He says during this time of
[1125.8s] trouble, God does not identify himself
[1128.4s] as the God of Daniel, a perfect man,
[1131.0s] excellent in all his ways or as the God
[1134.0s] of Jesus Christ, perfect and holy. He
[1137.6s] does not even identify himself as the
[1139.5s] God of Israel because Jacob's name was
[1141.7s] changed to Israel. He identifies himself
[1144.4s] as the God of a man who was was once a
[1147.6s] suppler, a sinner, a liar. He identifies
[1152.4s] himself as as with a man who was
[1154.7s] violent, cheated his family, cheated his
[1157.1s] cheated his father, cheated his brother.
[1159.8s] And yet God says, "I am the God of
[1162.3s] Jacob." To just remind you, if however
[1165.1s] sinful you may think you may, it may
[1167.0s] have been in your past. God says, "I
[1169.4s] will be your present help." Because he
[1171.5s] says the sinner converted, I am their
[1174.6s] present help. Even during that time of
[1176.6s] trouble, even during that time of
[1179.1s] difficulty, God is going to be our
[1181.4s] present help. My brother, I just want to
[1183.7s] bring you in here. I want you to just um
[1187.8s] take us further into the experience of
[1190.0s] Jacob and then tell tell us what is that
[1192.6s] hope that we shall have during the time
[1195.2s] of trouble spoken of in the book of
[1197.0s] Revelation and what is God's intention
[1199.4s] and Daniel and what is our hope? Indeed,
[1202.6s] um, Monday speaks about in the midst of
[1205.6s] all the turmoil, in the midst of all the
[1207.7s] difficulties,
[1209.4s] uh, whether internal and external,
[1211.5s] because sometimes more often than not,
[1213.4s] what
[1214.1s] prophecy deals with it, it helps us to
[1217.6s] understand our external world. But then
[1220.5s] beyond that, the power of the gospel is
[1223.2s] that it helps us to understand our
[1224.6s] internal world and to organize it. And
[1227.0s] so, uh, it may be that perhaps, um, you
[1231.3s] may not have external turmoil as of yet,
[1233.8s] but internally you may be having a lot
[1236.2s] of, um, experiences, a lot of things
[1237.9s] that you're going through, you know,
[1239.3s] things that you're struggling with and
[1241.1s] and and nonetheless, we're told that
[1243.8s] hopper bounds whether internally or
[1246.4s] externally amidst the turmoil. amidst
[1249.1s] the turmoil. And so uh we are asked to
[1253.8s] once again uh consider Psalms 46 which
[1258.4s] tells us about how the physical earth
[1260.5s] will be deeply affected by Christ's
[1262.6s] return. And uh we also know that
[1266.4s] Christ's return is not we don't we not
[1269.4s] only affect the rocks and the ocean but
[1271.9s] also the grand climax of arts history
[1275.4s] means the breakdown of worldly kingdoms
[1278.2s] and indeed we are called to consider and
[1280.7s] meditate on the words of Jeremiah 4
[1283.0s] 23-26 and I will read from the King
[1284.9s] James version and it says and I beheld
[1287.3s] the earth and low it was without form
[1290.0s] and void and the heavens and they had no
[1293.3s] light. I beheld the mountains and lo,
[1295.5s] they trembled and all the hills moved
[1297.5s] lightly. Verse 25 says, "And I beheld
[1300.9s] and lo, there was no man, and all the
[1303.3s] birds of the heaven were fled." Verse 26
[1306.1s] says, "And I beheld and lo the fruitful
[1308.6s] place was a wilderness, and all the
[1311.4s] cities thereof were broken down at the
[1315.1s] presence of the Lord and by his fierce
[1318.4s] anger." It's interesting. I remember we
[1321.1s] were having a conversation at some point
[1323.1s] about developed nations and developing
[1325.6s] nations and how cities when you when you
[1329.0s] when you move from city to city, there
[1330.8s] are pretty cities out there, you know,
[1332.7s] and and I remember sometimes when you
[1334.6s] when you go up uh a pedestal and then
[1337.5s] you can be able to for example have like
[1339.9s] a Mount Pisa moment where you're on a
[1341.9s] high point and you can be able to view
[1343.2s] the city and see the power of man uh
[1346.8s] man's man's mind when man applies his
[1349.0s] mind through science. an industry, how
[1352.0s] what he can generate and what he can
[1353.5s] create? But at the back of your mind, uh
[1356.6s] you wonder and ask yourself, has this
[1359.1s] city accepted God? You know, do these
[1361.4s] people uh know that the end of it all is
[1365.0s] with a is with fire and with brimstone
[1368.0s] and and and and with with with great
[1369.8s] with great uh with with with with a with
[1372.6s] a great um falling and everything indeed
[1375.9s] will be without form and um and and and
[1378.6s] void. almost going back to the way the
[1381.8s] world was uh in Genesis uh chapter 1 and
[1384.9s] verse one. And so it speaks to us and
[1387.5s] tells us that um the Bible not only
[1390.8s] tells us what will happen in the world
[1392.9s] but also the vision of Daniel chapter 7.
[1395.8s] It speaks to us about kingdoms rising
[1398.3s] and we saw all these kingdoms try to be
[1400.6s] better than their predecessors. But this
[1403.5s] one thing is clear. kingdoms rise and
[1406.6s] they fall and another will rise in
[1409.3s] itsstead. You know, the same way we say
[1411.6s] if you're fired today or if you die,
[1413.3s] somebody else will take your place. And
[1415.0s] so such such is life. And and and and
[1418.6s] ultimately the great questions of life
[1420.7s] that is the questions of human
[1422.0s] suffering, of human worth, of human
[1424.5s] value and and and uh these great
[1427.6s] questions still remain unanswered. the
[1430.2s] question of suffering, the question of
[1431.8s] sin and sinfulness and guilt. When will
[1435.0s] all this end? You know, each succeeding
[1437.3s] kingdom persecuted, each succeeding
[1440.2s] kingdom uh caused some turmoil amongst
[1443.5s] the amongst the children of God. But in
[1445.8s] in the midst of it all, we're told none
[1449.0s] of the kingdoms shown to Daniel proved
[1450.8s] to be a secure home for God's people.
[1453.4s] Though some were better than others,
[1455.0s] some prospered uh the children of God
[1457.6s] prospered in in other regimes than in
[1459.2s] others. As is always even in the
[1461.3s] lifespan of a country, they come leaders
[1463.4s] who are better and there are others who
[1465.9s] people cry more, you know. And so at the
[1469.0s] end of it all, is a solution another
[1471.7s] president? Is a solution another king?
[1473.4s] Is a solution something better? But the
[1475.4s] Bible speaks to us and tells us that the
[1477.4s] true solution, the true hope amidst all
[1480.2s] this turmoil isn't another human
[1482.6s] messiah, but rather the perfect Messiah,
[1485.8s] the only true Messiah, that is Christ
[1487.8s] Jesus, our Lord and our Savior and his
[1490.0s] second coming. It has so much power.
[1492.9s] Indeed, the book of Philippians chapter
[1494.3s] 3 and verse 20, we're told, "But we know
[1496.8s] that we have citizenship in the kingdom
[1499.8s] of God." Amen. You see, uh, as Jacob was
[1504.2s] going through his time of trouble, uh,
[1506.7s] as he's agonizing, lo and behold, who
[1510.3s] came to comfort him? Who came and
[1512.5s] changed his name? It is Christ. It is
[1515.0s] Christ who walks into our darkness. It
[1516.8s] is Christ who walks into our disasters.
[1518.7s] It is Christ who walks into our
[1520.0s] turmoils. And through those experiences,
[1523.4s] he who was known as Jacob, a thief, a
[1525.4s] suppler, his name was changed to Israel.
[1528.4s] one who has wrestled with God and has
[1530.6s] become victorious. And this and the key
[1533.2s] of his of getting victory in God isn't
[1536.9s] that he was stronger than God. No, it
[1539.1s] was in that he surrendered. And in his
[1541.3s] surrender, he refused to let go of God.
[1544.0s] He said, "I will not let go of him until
[1547.0s] he blesses me." Amen. In the midst of
[1549.0s] our turmoil, in the midst of our
[1550.4s] midnight, in the midst of our
[1552.1s] difficulties, both external and
[1553.5s] internal, let us surrender ourselves to
[1555.9s] God and
[1557.8s] equally hold on to
[1560.0s] him. Don't despair. Don't give up. There
[1563.7s] is hope amidst the turmoil. There is
[1565.8s] light at the end of the tunnel. One
[1568.0s] himwriter says, "It's the darkest just
[1570.5s] before the dawn." And so uh in the midst
[1573.5s] of all the difficulties, all the
[1575.8s] vicissitudes of life, all regardless of
[1579.4s] in which ocean, which sees your this
[1583.0s] your your your boat in in in this in
[1586.8s] life may be sailing. Maybe some for some
[1589.7s] it may be a time of smoothness, but you
[1592.3s] could the sea could be calm, but you're
[1594.6s] in the boat and you have seasickness.
[1596.8s] You're throwing up, you know. And
[1598.3s] sometimes it could be that the sea is
[1600.1s] also rough, you know. So internal and
[1603.4s] external chaos. In the midst of it all,
[1606.0s] Christ is the answer. And Christ gives
[1608.6s] us this hope. Scripture doesn't lie to
[1611.5s] us that in this world we will have
[1613.2s] tribulation. The scripture doesn't lie
[1615.1s] to us that the closing scenes of this
[1617.7s] world aren't as men preach to us. uh the
[1621.8s] prosperity ministers do a disservice to
[1624.1s] the children of God in not preparing
[1625.8s] them to meet the trials and the
[1628.2s] difficulties that are there for us.
[1630.1s] True. You know, we should be preparing
[1631.4s] for Jacob's time of trouble. And the
[1633.5s] best way to prepare is by practicing
[1636.2s] immediate surrender today and now.
[1638.9s] Practicing a faith that doesn't give up
[1641.0s] in the midst of the difficulties that we
[1642.7s] have today and now. And with this
[1644.8s] practice through the turmoils that we
[1647.1s] have then indeed hope will spring
[1650.2s] eternal. Amen. Amen. And my friends the
[1654.0s] hope here is truly that Christ will be
[1657.7s] with us. But beyond that it is what he
[1661.0s] is preparing for his children. That
[1663.6s] today indeed this may look like
[1665.4s] kingdoms. You see the book of Daniel
[1667.4s] says that when they were rising up, they
[1670.0s] don't just rise up slowly and you say,
[1671.8s] "Oh, I can see we have a new king. We
[1674.2s] have a president, but they rise up." The
[1677.1s] Bible says that he saw that there the
[1679.1s] winds, the four winds of the corners of
[1681.0s] the earth were were blowing and they
[1683.1s] were striving in the great sea for each
[1686.2s] kingdom to rise up. There was war. There
[1688.6s] was bloodshed. And even today you can
[1691.2s] see the striving of different kingdoms.
[1693.7s] As each kingdom looks for supremacy over
[1696.1s] another kingdom, there's a lot of
[1697.8s] striving. There's a lot of blushing.
[1699.3s] There's a lot of chaos that goes on
[1701.6s] today. And so what is the hope for the
[1703.6s] Christian is that oh the Lord has
[1706.3s] prepared a land which no eye seen, no
[1710.2s] ear has heard. The things that the Lord
[1712.4s] has prepared for his children, the new
[1715.7s] heavens and the new earth. That is where
[1718.5s] our citizenship is. As my brother
[1721.2s] pointed out that these kingdoms may rage
[1724.3s] but indeed there is a new heaven
[1726.6s] awaiting us. You know Ellen White writes
[1728.7s] and says that heaven is cheap enough. If
[1731.2s] you think there's a lot of trouble in
[1732.7s] these kingdoms, let me assure you even
[1734.9s] this one that is h going on today.
[1737.2s] People think oh maybe we will continue
[1739.0s] on
[1740.0s] forever. Babylon will rise up and tell
[1742.6s] you do not be deceived. Even I thought I
[1745.4s] was mighty but I fell. You think oh
[1748.3s] we're going to continue much longer.
[1750.1s] This is the greatest time we have ever
[1752.0s] lived. Oh let me tell you midopia will
[1754.6s] rise up and tell you. We also thought
[1756.6s] that was us until we saw one coming very
[1760.8s] fast and swept us out and Greece arose.
[1764.1s] And even one thought oh Alexander the
[1766.1s] great so young so amazing. Maybe Greece
[1768.7s] will rule forever. Greece will rise up
[1771.0s] and tell you it is a lie. Rome will tell
[1773.4s] you it is a lie that even these kingdoms
[1776.4s] we have in this world the Bible
[1778.3s] guarantees us as in Daniel chapter 2
[1781.4s] that great stone that is cut out without
[1784.2s] hands. It is going to crash that kingdom
[1787.0s] of clay and iron and these kingdoms as
[1790.0s] we see them they shall be no more.
[1792.5s] Christ in his appearing this place will
[1795.0s] be a wilderness. They will no longer
[1797.4s] continue. So we want to request you put
[1800.4s] yourself on the side of the eternal
[1802.9s] kingdom. The kingdom which Christ says
[1805.3s] once he has set it up, it will last
[1808.5s] forever. It is an everlasting kingdom.
[1812.0s] An everlasting kingdom, the new heaven,
[1815.2s] Christ preparing for you. These ones,
[1817.8s] they will all perish. Indeed. Um and in
[1821.6s] this world today, there are nations
[1823.0s] which are prosperous. M and um one thing
[1826.6s] most of this prosperous nation all um
[1829.8s] the parliamentarians and and some of the
[1832.4s] people there are speaking about an
[1833.9s] immigr an immigrant crisis you know
[1836.5s] people are looking for certain visas
[1838.5s] people are looking for certain
[1839.6s] citizenships you know you want to be a
[1841.4s] citizen of a particular people are
[1843.2s] camping in certain uh in certain
[1844.8s] embassies you know but lo and behold
[1847.7s] there are no stringent rules there are
[1849.8s] rules there but they aren stringent
[1851.7s] Christ says my yoke my yoke is easy and
[1854.2s] my burdens is light. You simply need to
[1857.2s] subscribe to the citizenship of Christ
[1859.6s] and you secure a place for yourself in
[1862.1s] the mansions up above. Yes. Amen. And
[1865.0s] you know Christ does not just promise us
[1867.5s] citizenship. Oh my goodness. It is
[1869.8s] beyond that. It is beyond that. I want
[1872.5s] us to as we consider the part um Tuesday
[1876.3s] um part under his feet for us. Please
[1879.1s] read for us um Psalm 47. Read for us
[1882.6s] verse three and verse 4. Psalm 47:3 and
[1886.1s] verse 4. It says, "He shall subdue the
[1888.5s] people under us." Mhm. And the nations
[1891.4s] under our feet. He shall choose our
[1893.8s] inheritance for us. The excellency of
[1896.2s] Jacob whom he loved. Amen. See, again,
[1899.1s] it references Jacob to just remind us
[1901.5s] that it is sinners that will inherit
[1903.6s] that land. But you know, Christ says, "I
[1906.0s] am going to give you something more than
[1907.8s] just mere citizenship. I will give you
[1911.2s] ownership. I will give you an
[1914.4s] inheritance. You know the Bible writes
[1916.6s] and says in the book of Revelation 3 21
[1920.9s] that Christ himself gives his people a
[1924.3s] promise. He says he that
[1927.6s] overcomes he will sit with me on my
[1931.3s] right hand even as I overcame and I am
[1934.3s] sat down with my father in his right
[1937.0s] hand. Essentially what Christ says, we
[1939.2s] will sit on his throne. By the do you
[1940.7s] know that today Christ is seated on on
[1943.1s] on the father's throne. He has not yet
[1945.0s] sat on his throne. He has not yet today
[1947.5s] he's a high priest. If he sits on a
[1949.1s] throne, it is his father's throne. He
[1950.8s] says I am sitting on my father's throne.
[1953.8s] But says when you shall come, I will sit
[1956.6s] on my throne. And let me tell you, you
[1959.1s] will also sit with me on my throne. And
[1962.6s] what does that mean? We will rule with
[1965.0s] him. It is beyond citizenship. It is let
[1968.1s] me tell you even today in this in in
[1970.6s] many countries people struggle to own
[1973.4s] land. People are evicted from places
[1976.5s] that they have lived for many years.
[1979.0s] Land is snatched from their rightful
[1981.0s] owners. Christ says the place where I am
[1984.2s] preparing for you. You will not only own
[1986.6s] it, you will rule over it. In the book
[1989.8s] of Obadiah verse 21, we are given the
[1993.7s] vision of Christ. First of all, Obadia
[1995.9s] speaks about the great controversy of
[1998.4s] Christ coming to take over the land of
[2001.0s] the hem, the land of Esau as it is
[2003.6s] called. And once he has done that, we
[2006.7s] see Christ on Mount Zion. But he is not
[2009.8s] alone. Obadiah verse 21 tells us that he
[2012.6s] is with saviors. He's with small people
[2015.3s] who have been delivered. Saviors with a
[2017.4s] small s. people who have been delivered,
[2020.2s] Jacob's sinners who were once sinners,
[2023.0s] but grace abounded and they were saved
[2026.2s] and they are now ruling with Christ on
[2029.0s] Mount Zion. The Bible writes and says
[2031.4s] that Christ, God promised Christ in the
[2034.6s] book of Hebrews chapter 1. Hebrews
[2037.6s] chapter one, the Bible writes and says
[2040.4s] in verse 13, "But to which of the angels
[2043.4s] said he at any time sit on my right hand
[2047.0s] till I make thine enemies thy foottool."
[2049.9s] This is Christ's heritage that his
[2052.6s] enemies will be his foottool. But Christ
[2055.4s] says, "This I will not share it alone. I
[2058.2s] will share it with my beloved, with
[2060.7s] those who struggled with sin and now
[2063.0s] they are saved. They will reign with me.
[2066.5s] They will reign with me on Mount Zion.
[2069.0s] My brother, I just want you to give us a
[2071.1s] comment about Christ's promise of giving
[2074.1s] us this inheritance and us reigning on
[2077.0s] Mount Zion with him
[2080.6s] at least his enemies being under his
[2083.0s] foot. Indeed uh Christ uh gives this
[2087.1s] assurance that
[2089.2s] generally the things of this world will
[2091.9s] pass. The things of this world will pass
[2094.8s] and eventually the gospel will will um
[2099.6s] will will be victorious. I'd like to
[2102.6s] recall uh John 14 when Christ is going
[2107.3s] and he he he tells his disciples as he's
[2110.5s] living in John 14 uh from verse one 1 2
[2114.1s] 3 and he says uh he says the following
[2116.9s] uh let me just I can I I have it in my
[2118.9s] head but it's good to to read. It says
[2120.9s] let not your hearts be troubled ye
[2122.7s] believe in God. Let not your hearts be
[2124.7s] troubled. Believe also in me. You know,
[2128.1s] he's telling them as in he's telling
[2132.0s] them let their hearts not to be
[2134.3s] troubled. You just believe in God. You
[2136.2s] know, believe also in him. Then he
[2138.3s] contin says, "In my father's house are
[2140.0s] many mansions. If it were not so, I
[2142.2s] would have told you, I would have told
[2143.8s] you. I go and prepare a place for you.
[2147.4s] And if I go and prepare a place for you,
[2149.0s] what does he say? I will come again and
[2151.8s] receive you unto myself that where I am
[2155.7s] there ye may be also. He's painting a
[2159.0s] picture that all these enemies all these
[2162.3s] things that happen they inconsequential.
[2165.0s] Just relax. Go through the motions. Pass
[2167.3s] through the motions. Let not your hearts
[2169.7s] be troubled. And then in the vision of
[2171.9s] Daniel chapter 2 where Nebuchadnezzar is
[2175.4s] dreaming about this this this statue,
[2178.0s] what happens? A stone that is cut out
[2181.1s] without the without the hands of man
[2183.4s] does what? Hits this statue at its feet
[2186.6s] and then what what happens?
[2189.0s] Crashes it into dust and then a wind
[2191.0s] does what? Blows it away. And then what
[2193.2s] happens to the stone? It grows into a
[2196.3s] huge mountain and there the people of
[2199.1s] God find settlement. Christ through
[2202.2s] prophecy, Christ through his own words
[2204.4s] comes over and over again and is telling
[2207.0s] us that
[2208.4s] indeed under his wings we can safely
[2211.8s] abide and ultimately all the kingdoms of
[2215.0s] this world all the rulers of this world
[2216.9s] will be put under his feet. Amen. For us
[2219.9s] to be at Jesus' feet, we can be there as
[2223.4s] those who are conquered or we can be
[2225.1s] there like Mary Magdalene as the
[2226.9s] recipients of grace. Amen. And I know
[2230.0s] today there are people like
[2231.6s] Nebuchadnezzar who when they hear that
[2234.1s] these kingdoms will not last, they want
[2236.2s] to say no, no, no, no, there's no way.
[2238.0s] They set up their own image of of of
[2241.0s] gold and because of their pride, they
[2243.7s] think that they will rule forever.
[2245.3s] Please talk to us about those who exalt
[2247.3s] themselves and the judgment that God is
[2249.7s] going to bring to this world even as we
[2252.2s] consider the Wednesday part, wine and
[2254.4s] blood. Thank you. And for the Wednesday
[2256.8s] part um reading Psalm 75, I would
[2260.0s] actually like to read this uh uh the
[2262.3s] translation that's found in um uh in NIV
[2266.5s] because of how clear it is. Um uh the
[2269.8s] level of clarity that I found when I was
[2271.6s] reading it was actually quite eye
[2273.2s] opening. And so um reading from Psalms
[2278.2s] Psalm 75 and it says uh for the director
[2282.7s] of music to the tune do not destroy a
[2286.2s] psalm of Asaf a song. We praise you oh
[2290.0s] God. We praise you for your name is
[2292.2s] near. People tell of your wonderful
[2295.0s] deeds. You say, "I choose the appointed
[2298.3s] time. It is I who judge with equity."
[2301.4s] When the earth and all the people quake,
[2304.1s] it is I who hold its pillars firm. To
[2306.8s] the arrogant, I say, boast no more. To
[2309.9s] the wicked, do not lift up your horns.
[2313.3s] Do not lift up your horns against
[2315.0s] heaven. Do not speak so defiantly. No
[2317.8s] one from the east. And actually, I like
[2319.5s] it in verse um in King James. It says
[2321.9s] promotion cometh not from the east or
[2325.0s] from the west or or h and the desert or
[2329.0s] from the desert. It is God who judges.
[2332.1s] Verse seven, he brings one down and he
[2334.2s] exalts another. Verse eight, in the hand
[2337.0s] of the Lord is a cup full of foaming
[2339.3s] wine mixed with spices. He pours his it
[2342.6s] out and all the wicked of the earth
[2344.9s] drink it down to its very dregs. As for
[2348.2s] me, I will declare this forever. I will
[2350.6s] sing praise to the God of Jacob who
[2353.3s] says, "I will cut off the horns of all
[2355.3s] the wicked, but the horns of the
[2357.0s] righteous will be lifted up." Amen. This
[2360.2s] is actually um a grand proclamation
[2363.6s] about what God does to the wicked and
[2366.6s] how God deals with that great sin of
[2369.5s] pride. We are told in verse six,
[2371.8s] "Promotion cometh not from the east and
[2373.9s] from the west. It is God who judges. He
[2376.4s] brings one down and he exalts another."
[2379.8s] How it's interesting how humility is h
[2383.4s] is is is at the very center of the
[2385.7s] gospel. We know that the mystery of
[2388.0s] godliness in second Timothy is what when
[2391.2s] God came down and became a man. In
[2393.7s] Philippians 2 5 it continues and says he
[2396.3s] became uh he he took the form even of a
[2398.6s] servant. And then it continues saying
[2400.3s] that he died the most um ignominious and
[2404.6s] ignorable death. the death of the cross
[2406.3s] which at that time was the most shameful
[2408.5s] the most shameful death and on the other
[2411.1s] hand we are told in 2 Thessalonians
[2413.2s] chapter 2 of the mystery of iniquity
[2415.5s] that it is a system that takes up itself
[2418.0s] and claims to be to be God and that is
[2421.7s] is is h in Psalm 75 concerning these two
[2425.4s] natures that nature that desires pride
[2427.9s] and self-exaltation versus the nature
[2430.0s] that desires humility and humility even
[2433.5s] a a a taking upon itself the the nature
[2437.3s] of Jesus Christ the character and the
[2439.8s] life of Jesus Christ that to the proud
[2442.8s] God utterly destroys and to the humble
[2445.6s] God exalts. We live in a day uh today
[2449.1s] where everyone claims to be God in a
[2452.2s] sense because everyone claims that
[2454.0s] they're living in accordance with their
[2456.2s] own means with their own ideas means
[2458.2s] more like their own ideas with their own
[2460.2s] principles. To each of those
[2462.4s] unfortunately those who claim to be
[2464.4s] their own god who claim not to worship
[2466.6s] and to follow the systems of heaven and
[2468.7s] heavenly laws and heavenly principles.
[2470.4s] Unfortunately, God's condemnation is
[2472.6s] clear that he we have spoken of mercy.
[2476.8s] Um and and and and we know God actually
[2480.8s] does h extend his mercy greatly to all
[2483.4s] his people. But there's a point when
[2485.5s] mercy lingers no more and the judgment
[2488.1s] comes and to and to such people we know
[2491.0s] that that wine will be will will be
[2493.6s] drunk. We are told in verse eight to the
[2496.4s] very ds completely and entirely. Amen.
[2499.5s] The wine of the judgment of God
[2501.1s] representing the judgment of God will be
[2503.2s] will will will be consumed fully upon
[2505.7s] the those people who are the wicked.
[2507.8s] Amen. You know the Bible tells us that
[2510.6s] Christ holds two cups in the book of
[2512.9s] Matthew 26 just before he was about to
[2516.6s] be crucified. He gave a particular cup
[2519.2s] to his disciples. That cup reminds us of
[2522.6s] his humiliation, of his humility. That
[2525.9s] cup reminds us of what Christ was
[2528.5s] willing to do to come down to shed his
[2531.6s] blood for the sake of his people. And he
[2534.5s] says it, if you choose to humble
[2537.0s] yourself and drink of that cup, then you
[2539.8s] will not drink of the cup I have
[2541.8s] prepared later on for those who defy me.
[2545.4s] For those because of their pride do not
[2548.2s] desire to worship me. The Bible tells us
[2550.7s] in the book of Revelation chapter 14
[2552.9s] that that cup that cup is f filled with
[2556.6s] wrath. Um and it does not have any
[2559.7s] mixture of grace. Two cups either you
[2563.1s] drink the cup of humility or the cup of
[2565.7s] because of pride lifted up the people
[2568.2s] who receive the mark of the beast
[2569.8s] because they say we will worship on our
[2571.6s] own day. We do not care what the Bible
[2573.4s] says. people who are very who are lifted
[2575.7s] up. They do not want to follow the
[2577.1s] instructions of God but want to follow
[2579.8s] their own ways. Today God still lays out
[2583.3s] and extends that cup to us every time
[2586.3s] and reminds us it is either the
[2588.6s] leadership of the cross or the
[2590.6s] leadership of the individuals who want
[2592.6s] to be led by themselves.
[2595.6s] My brother, I want us to go into the
[2598.5s] Thursday part. And because of this,
[2601.1s] because truly we also do not desire to
[2603.9s] see the the the wicked being destroyed,
[2606.8s] though we look forward to the judgment
[2608.6s] of God, which is fair and equitable. How
[2611.9s] shall we be as Christians knowing that
[2614.4s] indeed God shall judge? How shall we be
[2617.7s] as Christians? Even as we consider the
[2619.8s] Thursday part of the lesson, indeed
[2623.5s] um the Bible tells us that indeed God
[2626.5s] will judge. I remember uh in the context
[2629.4s] of uh as we were speaking about under
[2632.0s] his feet and I remember um Psalms 110
[2636.9s] and verse and verse one, the Bible
[2639.7s] records and says, "The Lord says unto my
[2642.1s] Lord, sit at my right hand until I make
[2644.2s] your enemies a foottool for your feet."
[2647.0s] In 1 Corinthians chapter 15:4-27,
[2650.2s] uh Paul writes in the same theme and he
[2652.2s] says, "Then the end will come when he
[2654.4s] hands over the kingdom to God the Father
[2656.5s] after he has destroyed all dominion,
[2658.4s] authority, and power." Amen. For he must
[2660.6s] reign until he has put all his enemies
[2662.9s] under his feet. Amen. The last enemy to
[2665.1s] be destroyed is what? Is death. For God
[2667.8s] has put everything under his feet. And
[2671.2s] um again also the same theme is echoed
[2674.2s] in Ephesians chapter 1 vers 2022. It
[2676.7s] says God raised Christ from the dead and
[2679.4s] sat him at his right hand in the
[2682.3s] heavenly realms far above all rule and
[2684.4s] authority, power and dominion. And God
[2686.6s] placed all things under his feet and
[2688.9s] appointed him to be head over everything
[2690.9s] for the church. Amen. So the Bible is
[2693.5s] simply telling us that indeed in Christ
[2697.7s] our victory is secure. In Christ, all
[2700.9s] the things of this world, all the
[2702.2s] kingdoms of this world are under his
[2704.4s] feet. But then the question is, have the
[2707.9s] nations had this? Do they have the
[2710.4s] nations had the good news that that that
[2713.5s] salvation has come? You know, um there's
[2716.6s] that hymn um that says, "We have heard a
[2720.2s] mighty sound. Jesus saves." Jesus saves.
[2723.3s] Tell to sinners far and wide. Jesus
[2725.4s] saves. Jesus saves. shout salvation full
[2728.1s] of full and free have the people heard.
[2731.1s] David writes in Psalm 67 borrowing from
[2733.6s] the same and he says God be merciful
[2735.8s] unto us and bless us and cause his face
[2739.9s] to shine upon us. Godan says that thy
[2743.4s] way may be known among the earth thy
[2745.8s] saving health among all the nations. Let
[2748.6s] the people praise thee oh God. Let all
[2750.4s] the people praise thee. Oh let the
[2752.2s] nations be glad and sing for joy. For
[2754.5s] thou shalt judge the people righteously
[2757.2s] and govern the nations upon the earth.
[2760.2s] Let the people praise thee, oh God. Let
[2762.2s] the people praise thee. It's almost like
[2764.1s] a chorus, you know. And he continu says,
[2766.2s] then shall the earth yield her increase
[2768.2s] and God, even our own God shall bless
[2771.5s] us. Says, God shall bless us and all the
[2774.4s] ends of the earth shall fear him. It's a
[2778.7s] hymn of praise helping us to understand
[2782.5s] that in the end under his wings we are
[2785.5s] safe in the end if we accept God's
[2790.3s] mercy. God David begins pleading for
[2793.4s] mercy. God be merciful unto us. He's
[2796.8s] speaking uh for all of us for you and
[2799.9s] me. And he says, "May we experience the
[2802.6s] mercy of God and beyond that may we also
[2806.0s] experience his hand of blessing and
[2809.4s] beyond that may he cause his face to
[2812.2s] shine upon us. Why? That the way may be
[2817.7s] known that his way may be known in all
[2820.2s] the earth and his saving health among
[2823.5s] all the nations." We are given this uh
[2828.4s] responsibility as Christians to
[2831.3s] experience God's mercy and his blessing.
[2834.0s] And ultimately in experiencing his mercy
[2836.6s] and his blessings, we through our lives,
[2839.2s] our lives are a sort of theater to the
[2841.8s] world in which we able to declare the
[2844.7s] ways of the Lord and he where yes, even
[2847.8s] his saving mercy, his health, he's
[2850.1s] saving health amongst all the nations.
[2853.0s] And David is also speaking to us and
[2855.4s] telling us that if we trust in God, if
[2858.4s] we trust in God, what will happen? Bible
[2862.1s] says the nations will be glad and sing
[2865.2s] for joy because God will judge how
[2868.2s] righteously. You know, righteousness is
[2869.8s] a cry for the people of this world
[2872.0s] today. We everybody everywhere is asking
[2875.2s] for righteousness. Where can I find
[2876.9s] justice? As you said, some people's land
[2879.4s] has been taken away. Some people's
[2881.0s] opportunities have been taken away.
[2882.6s] their dreams have been smashed. They
[2885.0s] they they they they thought that where
[2887.3s] they would be right now and where they
[2889.3s] they are is is is different. And they
[2892.1s] asking for justice. They're crying for
[2893.7s] justice. But the Bible says God will
[2896.3s] give the people justice. And he will
[2899.0s] rule and govern the nations upon the
[2900.9s] earth. And it
[2905.1s] contin her increase. Even the earth will
[2908.3s] respond. that when a good ruler is in
[2911.7s] place, even the nations respond. Amen.
[2914.8s] The economy, the earth in itself
[2917.1s] agriculturally, we develop. We develop
[2919.8s] and there's no greater king. There's no
[2922.2s] greater ruler who is worthy than this
[2925.2s] God. Uh and therefore is David is play
[2929.4s] is pleading and asking that God indeed
[2932.1s] will be able to take the will. Amen.
[2934.4s] Isaiah 56 and:7 he writes and says even
[2938.1s] them I will bring to my holy mountain
[2940.2s] and make them joyful in my house of
[2942.0s] prayer. Amen. The burnt offerings and
[2943.5s] their sacrifices will be accepted on my
[2945.4s] altar for my house shall be called a
[2948.6s] house of prayer for all nations nations.
[2951.8s] Amen. God intends my brothers and my
[2954.1s] sisters that we reflect his light to the
[2956.4s] rest of the world. You know, and this is
[2958.6s] a task that was given to the children of
[2960.6s] Israel. And it's a task that is even
[2962.2s] given to us today. David reminds us in
[2966.0s] this psalm that God wants his way to be
[2968.6s] known in the earth, his salvation
[2971.4s] amongst the nations. And therefore,
[2974.4s] unfortunately, in the history of Israel,
[2977.0s] more often than not, they failed. The
[2979.0s] question is, in this final hours of of
[2982.8s] the earth, will his salvation be made
[2985.8s] known? It's a question that calls us to
[2988.3s] introspect and ask ourselves, how are we
[2990.2s] living our lives? Have we experienced
[2992.9s] the mercy of God? Have we experienced
[2995.5s] his salvation? And if we have, are we
[2998.9s] making it known? Are we declaring it?
[3001.5s] You know, it is our privilege to
[3003.4s] experience his mercy. It is our
[3005.3s] privilege to be raised from sinners and
[3008.3s] to be elevated to saints because all
[3011.3s] saints were once sinners. We have we
[3013.8s] must experience the mercy of God. We
[3015.9s] must experience his hand of blessing. We
[3018.1s] must see his saving health in our lives
[3021.2s] and we shall be able to declare it in
[3022.8s] all the earth and amongst the
[3024.9s] nations. The question for us this day is
[3030.2s] as the himw writer once again says will
[3032.2s] we surrender to this savior to his
[3034.3s] scepter humbly bow. We too shall come to
[3037.8s] know his favor. He will save us and save
[3040.8s] us now. Amen. And I especially like that
[3044.0s] illustration that was used um uh in the
[3046.7s] lesson about this u
[3049.8s] um element that has been developed in
[3052.3s] MIT that once when when it is painted on
[3056.2s] any object any light that shines upon it
[3060.2s] cannot be reflected. It absorbs all the
[3063.4s] light because it is extremely dark. And
[3066.2s] I just asked myself, could it be that
[3069.1s] some of us have become so black, so dark
[3072.3s] like this object? Even when God shines
[3075.3s] his face upon us, people do not see
[3078.0s] anything. There's not, we are completely
[3080.1s] invisible, we become probably proud and
[3083.3s] arrogant and we have been set in our
[3085.4s] ways that even as God is continuing to
[3087.8s] shine his light of mercy, we are we
[3090.3s] cannot the world cannot see anything.
[3092.8s] But the Bible has promised you know
[3094.9s] Psalm 56 the context is very beautiful
[3097.9s] in verse six the the B when verse 7 says
[3100.7s] even them will I bring the them part
[3103.0s] there is referenced in verse six it says
[3106.1s] it is the sons of the strangers
[3107.9s] strangers from Israel but if they obey
[3110.8s] my law I will bring them in. In verse
[3113.5s] eight it says that beyond even the
[3116.3s] outcasts of Israel I will bring even
[3118.4s] other outcasts. Those the world has
[3121.0s] considered outcasts. I will bring them
[3123.4s] in. But how will they hear if no one
[3126.5s] preaches to them? How will they know if
[3129.4s] they have not read? How will they
[3131.2s] believe if no one has told them? We need
[3134.8s] to allow our light to shine. I don't
[3138.5s] know. You are very passionate about
[3139.9s] chapency and light shining. If you'd
[3142.5s] want to add a comment here. Yeah, my
[3144.6s] comment is just about um especially for
[3147.8s] chaplain being the best time for God's
[3149.8s] people, young people who have a desire
[3151.7s] for the truth to receive these messages,
[3154.2s] the message of the judgment and of
[3156.5s] mercy. the wonderful contrast that we
[3158.6s] have been um going
[3160.8s] through the the world being um enraged
[3164.9s] and and in conflict God's people being
[3167.2s] at peace. The the the challenge between
[3171.1s] those ones who are reigning presently
[3174.2s] and those who will reign when Christ
[3176.2s] comes. The conflict between those ones
[3178.9s] who are proud and will be humbled and
[3181.0s] those who are humble and will be
[3182.8s] exalted. God's people wants those ones
[3185.8s] who will be his humble people, those who
[3187.8s] will reign in the world to come, those
[3189.7s] ones who will submit to the Lord Jesus
[3192.5s] Christ even today. Amen. Amen. Amen. As
[3196.6s] we close there, I would like my brother
[3199.1s] to pray with us. Um, thank you for
[3201.1s] joining us today. I pray and hope that
[3203.8s] you have been blessed. Let's believe and
[3206.9s] pray. Our kind and loving father and
[3209.4s] master art in heaven, we humbly come
[3211.0s] before you this blessed day. We are
[3212.3s] thankful oh Lord for the wonderful ways
[3214.3s] in which even through the thumbs through
[3216.7s] poetry we find opportunity to quell our
[3221.7s] toils both within and without. And
[3223.8s] ultimately you've told us that at the
[3225.8s] end of it all you reign victorious. You
[3228.0s] reign supreme and every knee shall bow.
[3230.6s] Every tongue shall confess that you are
[3232.6s] our lord and our savior Jesus Christ is
[3235.4s] king of kings and lord of lords. Now
[3238.0s] dear Lord, this particular Sabbath day
[3240.6s] we prostrate ourselves to you this day.
[3243.4s] Dear Lord we believe help our unbelief.
[3246.7s] Help us to reflect this light. But
[3249.2s] before that dear Lord help us to see the
[3251.3s] light, accept it, assimilate it and be
[3254.1s] the light is a most humble prayer.
[3256.1s] Believing and trusting in you. Amen.
[3258.0s] Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. God bless you.