Title: Sabbath Morning | Sermon |"The Man Eternally Excluded" | Pr. Ernest Njeru Ireri
Video ID: 8plYKjxFXWg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8plYKjxFXWg
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Praise the Lord. Amen. Praise the Lord again. Uh thank you so much my elder though you made me feel shy. I don't know what I'm going to report to my boss that I'm at the pull pit where he served only one Sabbath. So we'll be equal. We'll be even because this is also one Sabbath probably in this Queen Quinn. Nonetheless, I want to take this moment to thank the Lord for such a great opportunity to come and fellowship with you on a high Sabbath. You know the AMM Sabbath is a very high Sabbath. These are the men who have allowed the Lord to use them as they walk in the footsteps of Jesus. Nothing bigger can be said than that. And so in a special way we want to thank the entire department of adventist men's ministries led by that general maja. You see even the name alone tells you it is not you know a department that is joking and not only the name please our leader you can also rise and wave again ju just just look at that body and tell me whether you think there's a joke there. So I am happy that he's not standing here next to me because the visitors will not know who is the pastor and who is the armor leader. We want to thank God for the organizers of this great day that the Lord will speak to us in a special way not only now but as he has done in the morning and also he will do in the afternoon. I also have appreciation for the pastorial team uh headed by your senior pastor Dr. Herea a good friend of mine when I confirmed availability for this day he extended a very warm welcome and so I know he's not around he's out on other engagements I want to say I'm grateful we also want to thank the eldership for ensuring that this day is such colorful and we want to glorify the lord for you I'm here enjoying you know this day of a family of faith where my leader Elder Nemiah Juna serves. I was able to see him in the morning and he was telling me you know you are the visitor. I am not a visitor. I am a member and at least I felt I'm at home with his presence. I bring you regards from my president pastor Benjamin. He is out and he told me when I come today together with the greetings that were already shared earlier on by my wife from our children those two sets that I'll bring them to God's people. I hope you have received them. Um before I begin the message today allow me also to recognize a special team a team that is close to my heart. Those are the nurses of New Life SDA church. When I speak about nurses, you may not know but the women ministries of this church visited our entity sometimes ago last year fourth quarter. They had sponsored you know evangelistic campaign in a place called Kangwa in Kyaga County. And we thank the Lord for their ministry that ended up opening a church there. They baptize 18 people. No, is they baptized? Yes. 18 people. And we are grateful. And on that material, you know, climax sabbath the the bus was there and they were all dressed in that nurse uniform. You know the nurse uniform. So we are very grateful. the team that was led last year by uh sister Herin Onach. We still remember and we pray that also this year you are also very welcome to come over. As I was planning to come yesterday and I began off from Meu. I was wondering and worried how am I going to stand here today and speak on an AMM Sabbath while I am single. That thought disturbed me along the way when I posed at Moa. I was saying, "What if a miracle happens and I find myself an a full AM member?" All I didn't know is that my sorrow was in vain because something was cooking in the background. And so I landed in the city. I was ushered in by your leaders to a place here for accommodation. And I kept on speaking, you know, to my family, to my wife, telling her that I arrived safely. You know, I was welcomed and I'm now ready. My tie is set. Only for me to get to this compound and find her welcoming me. This is, you know, have you ever been given a surprise where you get 10 nil? No clue, no nothing. And you see our leader AMM leader our leader here Elder Maja knew what was happening and he couldn't tell me. So we are going to meet after uh behind here uh for the corruption they did with our executive secretary's wife sister Mary uh Mala otherwise my wife thank you for accepting to surprise me I now feel I can you know share as a full member so thank you thank you very much so So as I stand here to share God's word, I recognize there are those who began the service earlier on than me. We want to thank the Lord for the team that was here very early in the morning from 8. We thank the Lord also for the Sabbath school team including the church at study. We thank the Lord for the children teachers that were outside there in their classes. We are also very grateful for the team of chisters that have been standing in here giving us you know such an experience of heaven where we'll be praising the Lord forever. So for all these themes, we want to glorify the Lord for your ministry. We also want to thank God for the special messages brought in by the choirs. We are grateful to see the Cina church choir, our guest choir in the emerald green. They have stood here, 22 ladies in green, 10 men and there was one unseen choir member. I noticed and I even felt, you know, energized and we are grateful. They give us, you know, a song that says that for sure in this life we are living in in this hard economic times when you worry you only waste your own energy. The best you can do is only to trust in the Lord because even by worrying you cannot add not only a centimeter of your hair but even a second of your life you cannot. So uh the canina choir may the Lord bless you. They also added us you know a beautiful song that is now the thematic area of my message. A very deep question to ask all of us. When that day will come as the judgment is ongoing as we speak today in the courts of heaven where the Lord is perusing over the records that have been recorded by an airing angels in heaven of whatever you do whether from your mind with what you do with your eyes and everything else. And a time will come when that name will be brought before the judgment table. And Jesus will be there when that name is heard and read. And he will say, you know what, my father, I thank you for allowing me to have been known in the life of that gentleman, but I'm so sorry and sad today that he refused to accept me, may his name be forever scrapped from the lamb's book of life. It is a very, you know, serious matter. Anyone of us who is here today who has ever at any one time in their life accepted the Lord Jesus that moment your name was transferred into the lamb's book of life every single individual even if you accepted Jesus for 10 seconds your name was written in the lamb's book of life however that name is not written there permanently a time will come when your life account will be placed on the table and at that time it will be decided whether that name will continue to remain in the lamb's book of life or not. And you see this choir has told us when that particular time will come. I was an armor I'm an AM member. I was a youth member. I was you know AWM member. So at least my name was written there. But what has transpired between the day it was written and now? When those names again will be flipped over, will your name be written? Will your name be called up yonder? What a wonderful message. Uh Cassina choir, may the Lord bless you. We want to thank God for all the children's sermon, a message that we have a God, the God who tells you do not worship other gods before me. He listens to the cries of his people and he answers. We have a powerful God. Thank you, Sister Mary, for that. We also now want to thank God for new life, fifth gong avenue church choir, the great. You could see the greath. You saw the men walking, the men in black. We only know those men in black in very, you know, weird moments, but they are the ones who formed this church choir. The men in black, you know, and then they have tried to corrupt us with a UDA tie. Oh, sorry. Sorry for that. Uh and the ladies were blending them well. We thank the Lord for that great song that I will sing of that one person who matters in my life. That is my redeemer. No other who deserves my allergies, my praise, my homage, my worship except that one that is my redeemer. So uh New Life Church Choir, may the Lord bless you. I will be speaking English an English that I was taught by one of your members who is here sister Alice Okov my English teacher those years in Kura slightly after independence was teaching me there and I'm grateful where is she where is my English teacher sister Alice where are you oh she is here please. Thank you. Thank you so much, mom. Seeing you here makes me, you know, feel a bit tensed. I hope I'll remember the rules of grammar. And it was not just me. She also taught my wife and we are grateful. So with that said, allow me to take you to God's word. Let us go together to the book of first kings chapter 2:2. I'm reading from English Standard Version. The Bible says, second part, be strong and show yourself amen. Be strong and show yourself amen. May the Lord add a blessing to the reading of his word. Amen. I may not promise here that I'm doing a 15 minutes or 20 minutes message, but I can promise that before you know it, I will have ended. The message is titled the man eternally excluded. Let us pray. Our gracious father in heaven, we want to thank you for the opportunity that is ours to listen to your word this morning. As I stand here, Lord, I pray that I will only be a vessel to be used of you and through my lips that I will hear you speak and all of us in this congregation will hear you speak to us. May this message have a place in our hearts. May it move us closer to you than before. For this we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. The man eternally excluded. Someone said that uh the words of a dying person are the wettiest and I cannot agree enough when I read of what David told his son while he was at his dying bed. The words that we have written here resonate or are similar to the same same words that was spoken by Moses while he was passing on the baton of leadership to Joshua. They are the same words that God used in the language of prophet Nathan while he was making a covenant between God and David in 2 Samuel chapter 12. And those are the words now that David kept in his heart when he was a very old man about 972 BC. While he was dying, he decided to call his son the heir of the throne, brother Solomon. And he told him, Solomon, I want you to listen kely. It has come a time when I can no longer be near you anymore. I am dying. I will go in the way of all the earth. Soon I will be buried with my forefathers, with my ancestors. But I have something to tell you. Over the main past of the years, I have advised you severally time and time again. But this time, my breath is not even strong to give you a lecture. I can only make very few statements. And he says, "Be strong and show yourself a man." What was he supposed to do by showing himself a man? In the preceding verses, verse three and verse four, he says, "It is only by keeping the statutes of Jehovah." This was an anxious father at his dying bed. He thought, you know, the best thing I can do for my son is to make him get closer to the Lord than even living an inheritance or temporal goods. That keeping close to the Lord was to be in part responsible for the legacy he will leave. It was to be in part responsible for the success of his leadership. As long as he was faithful to keep the statutes of Jehovah, he was to remain in leadership. And God tells him, it will not just be Solomon. It will be every other leader in all the ages for Israel will always come from your loins. And so today, as we look at this matter, the message of what it means to be a man to keep statutes of Jehovah is what we want to analyze. And I want to invite all of us to look at the life of one patriarch who was given, you know, an opportunity by God to show himself a man. An opportunity to become part of the sealed people of God. An opportunity to show the world that for sure I have shown myself to become a man. But he failed. And at the end of the day, he was eternally excluded from the role of the overcomers, from the sealed people of God. His life as has been recorded in scripture will become today an object lesson. And as I walk out of that door, I should go asking myself, can that fate befall me as it befell this patriarch? And his name was done. When we look at the Bible in Genesis chapter 35, we find a list of the sons of Jacob. 13 12 sons and one daughter. We find you know Reuben as the firstborn preceded by Simeon then Levy then Judah and then number five comes a guy who was called Dan. He had a brother a maternal brother called Naftali and then other children came. Dina was there as the only daughter of Jacob. We had Gad, Asher, Isaka, Zebulun, Joseph and the very last born who was called Benjamin. So Dan comes in from this particular family as the fifth son. He was born to Rachel's servant who was called Bilha and he had many other steps. But scripture is you know keen to record to us a history about him. We are told in Genesis 35 he is mentioned as a very legitimate son of the patriarch. In Genesis 45:49 when the father was giving a prophecy of what will befall his children in the future we find among all the 12 sons of Jacob Dan is also listed there and among the many things that the father sees as a prophecy of his days you know what done you shall become a judge you shall govern your people the children of Israel and sure as the Lord was you know illuminating this prophecy in the mind of the patriarch while he was dying it happened. So it is from the tribe of Dan that we find the most mysterious judge of Israel who ruled God's people for 20 years. The judge whose hands could do anything. He was able even to carry such a great sanctuary and throw it to the hills of Mong. You know his name? He was called Samson the Nazerite. He came or descended directly from the tribe of Dan. And so for sure as the father had prophesied that you shall be a judge, you shall govern your people. It is so happened. Fast forward in the history numbers chapter 2 when after these tribes went over from the land of bond that is Egypt when they are in the wilderness and the Lord you know when the Lord directs that we need a new office the office of a priest and high priest and so he tells them make me a sanctuary that I will dwell in your midst the Lord made a reving arrangement at the very center we had the tabernacle And then all the sons were to surround, you know, the tabernacle. The Bible tells us that even the tribe of Dan was already given a place and a location where he would be. And so they pitched the tent on the northern side of the tabernacle, the tribe of Dan was also included there. We move forward. When Moses was dying, he had, you know, moved with all the Israelites for 40 good years in the wilderness. They have come to the verge of Jordan River. Moses is here now handing over the mantle to Joshua. He even remembers to mention the name of the tribe of Dan. And immediately after this mention, Joshua picks it up as a very legitimate tribe of Israel and he allocates them land in on the west side of Jerusalem once they crossed over Jordan River. All this time remember they are being mentioned along with their legitimate brothers. Great things are happening to them. But the most sad reality the Bible gives us is in Revelation chapter 7 when as the rest of his brothers are sealed for eternity as their names are called up yonder among the sealed people of God as they are being recorded in the role of the overcomers where you and I are represented. We hear the Bible telling us from verse 4 to8 of Revelation 7 that the name of Dan was excluded. It's a very serious thing. You are excluding the name of a legitimate patriarch, one who was in line with all his brothers right from the word go from when they were born all the way to the land of promise that is Canaan. But when the Lord is telling us in heaven I have put 12 gates. Each of the gates I've engraved the name of one of the sons of Jacob. The name of this patriarch by the name of Dan does not appear. All the other sons are there. It is even sad to know one of his sons you know Joseph has been given two equal slots in that list of the sealed people of God. He has you know a door recorded by his name Joseph and another door recorded by his firstborn son Manasse man that is the Lord has wiped my tears in a land where life was not very good for me he did it for me and so man comes in from Hebrew to say cost to forget I have forgotten all the problems I've suffered in prison I forgotten all the stress that were brought to me by my brothers when they sold me out as a slave. I have forgotten all my life as a youth. I spend in prison and now I have become the leader of Egypt. I'm the prime minister. When he got a son, he said, "You son, I'll give you the name of my heart." That the Lord has caused me to forget my problems. I will call you man. As Manasse. So, Joseph and Manasse, one family are given two equal slots and the name of Dan has been scrapped out. I tend to sit down and ask could God be this you know a sadist why and could such also a fate befall me children of God you are there in the list of active AMM members of new life you are there also even in a tie that is written AMM you look like a very legitimate member of that group you have been there in the role of those with wonderful families When you are given a chance to stand here with your family, you will introduce people to your delightful wife and children probably that have the ski of even playing violin in front of the congregation as your villagers are you know dividing ancestral land at home in Yaribache and Kanyamo. You are there you even have 10 acres of your own you've added while people are standing in who are living not only in rented houses in But your own house, you are recorded there. When people in the church today are standing in, if you have a social status or a position of influence, you also are recorded there. However, as the names are being called up yonder on that, you know, fateful day after the judgment is done, could it be that just like Dan, your name will be scrapped out? Your name will be excluded. You will now have to eternally get lost. That is the question. But the story of Dan affirms that it can happen. You may have walked with us all the way up to now, but something happens to you. And you see, while I was checking my Bible, I was wondering, did God do something? Was it that the Lord wanted Dan to get lost just like that? Was there a provision that was made? And the answer is yes. The Lord had made an interdependence arrangement for Dan not to be lost. The Bible tells us that each of the sons of Jacob as written in scripture had a weakness. All of them, each one of them, when we exclude dinner for our own mistakes. But all the sons, 12 of them, each had their own sinful tendencies that would affect their future. That would also have made them to be eternally excluded from the role of the overcomers, from the sealed people of God in Revelation 7. But God in his own wisdom made a provision for conquering those sinful tendencies, for conquering those weaknesses. How did he do it? It has been recorded to us in the book of Numbers chapter 2. The Lord, you know, outlines how he's prescribed the living arrangements of all the 12 tribes with the tabernacle at the very center. The Bible tells us three tribes were to be located on each of the four sides of the tabernacle, what you call a triad. And so on the east side of the tabernacle we had three Judah, Issacha, Zebulun. On the west side we had three another triad that is Ephraim, Manasse and Benjamin. On the southern side we had Reuben, Simeon and God. And now on the side of our interest today was on the north. The northern side the very first tribe that was there was Dan followed by his own maternal brother that is Naftali and then Asher. Why were they there? The Bible tells us this configuration that the Lord in his own wisdom prepared. What he wanted is the more industrious tribes were to be yolked with the more sedentary. Look at that particular balance. The more warlike like Simeon and Levy, they were to be, you know, uh coupled with the more peaceful. The more worldly like Dan were to be most they were to be coupled with the more spiritual. And those that were looking like they were aggressive of the sons of Jacob, they were coupled with the more timid. The Lord ensured that if my weakness is so, you know, outgoing, it is seen, it is a dominant one, I will couple you with one that will help to support to bring you up and try to cover your weaknesses. So every character and personality traits of the tribe will be balanced by the virtues of the other. the weaknesses balanced by the strength of the other and each tribe's strength was to be shared in support of another. Oh indeed God had made a provision and today I say praise his name. There could be a possibility amen members here that the bodies the Lord has brought you in your Christian journey today they have been placed there by God. Do you value them? They are there to balance your traits and improve you for eternity. So I don't know whether when you are doing when you are going for that soccer tournament where the ambassadors did 16 nil to the AMA members I don't know whether you look at you know that interdependence as a plan that the Lord has brought to improve you for eternity. This is what the Lord did for Dan. But with all that the Lord did for him for all those 40 years in the wilderness, still Dan could not be helped. He ended up, you know, getting lost. It is a very sad thing. If you today you compare Dan to his brothers, you can judge for sure whether he qualified to be lost. Let me actually give you just a few of them for you to see what we are trying to speak about. The names of these brothers, they engraved in the gates of heaven of that celestial city. The apostle John saw them as entering the heavenly canon. Look at who they were. Let me give you an example of just a few. The very first one I will share with you is a gentleman called Judah. This was another AMM member. If he was there today, we'll be seeing him in a navy blue suit and you know a red tie written AMM. Now Judah was a good man. He was known among his family to be a man who you know was caring to the rest of his brothers. It is Judah alone who devised a plan of saving Joseph from the pit. Remember that story when they put him in there when all were now waiting for wild animals to come and devour their brother. Judah said oh no God let my life also disappear if I will not do something to help my brother. And he devised the plan. That is the plan that brought out Joseph from the pit. When you know they had gone to look for food in Egypt and they found their brother who recognized them without them recognizing him. The brother said, "Very good. This is my only brother Benjamin. What I will do? I'm going to have him held back. Let the other brothers go." And when Benjamin was caught and brought in into prison, it was Judah again who gave his life assurityity for his brother Benjamin. He said, "No, no, it cannot happen." Let me tell you, Joseph, and this time, remember, you didn't know that it was his brother. Please, the prince of Egypt, it is better you take my life and even kill me than, you know, put in prison my small brother called Benjamin. Allow me to remain as a collateral damage for my brother. Let him go. That was the man Judah, a very gracious man. But in as much as gracious as he was, the Bible says he had a weakness that would have made him miss heaven. What was the weakness? It is called the lust of the flesh. A weakness that is here shared by very many of us today. Lust of the flesh. Remember about the story in Genesis 38 of how he was entangled with his own daughter-in-law Tamar. Who does that? you become, you know, engaged sexually with your own daughter-in-law and we still call you a patriarch. Look at the people that came from his loins years later. His descendants, think about David, he was from the tribe of Judah. Think about how he had also a funny relationship with Uriah's wife, Bath Sheba, and whatever happened. Think about also the son also a descendant of Judah Solomon. How he was walking around you know with a thousand wives. If for me my heart beats at 72 flat because of one. What about when you have a thousand? Tell me this are people who follow the example of their patriarch. But it is nice to note here in the pulpit in as much as he struggled with such a weak weakness that is shared by many of us by his grace he overcame. And when the names are called up yonder the very first one in the book of revelation even if Judah is not the firstborn it is Judah. Praise the Lord. You too can overcome. We find another one another brother Asher. Asher was known also to be an interesting individual. He was also a good one. The Bible says he had a pleasant personality among his brethren. If you do Deuteronomy 33:24, it says he was acceptable to his brothers. Whenever you had time to sit down with him, you will just enjoy that company. If you need somebody to take you out, someone who will not embarrass you, you will not go to any other but aer. He was pleased unto his brothers. Anytime they had to sit with their brothers, they said, "Wow, I am proud to be associated with Aar and his tribe." But you see, no matter how good he was, he also had a problem, a weakness. What was the weakness? Withdrawal in moments of crisis. He was unavailable in times of need. And the Bible tells us so. When David was struggling and he needed a hand in battle, all the other brothers came. And the Bible in 1 Coronicles 27 says, "A share and his tribe missed out." Imagine at such a time when you needed a hand from a brother. The enemies are right in front of your of your house. Judah decides to come. You know, Zebulun decides to come. Levy and Simeon decide to come, but says, "Please, can you put off your phone? When they come, tell them I went out." And there he went missing until the war was over. And now David is putting, you know, a list of congratulatory messages and he misses the name of a sher, anyone from his tribe. They had a weakness of withdrawing themselves in moments of crisis and availability in times when they were needed. Could that also be you? We are with you here for birthday. When I'm doing a serious road trip and the fuel is mine, you are also there. when we are going for football and you see you know the winning side is mine you are also there but at that moment when depression is knocking at my door I need a friend to speak to you go mute you are offline WhatsApp hook tik tok you're not there your phone cannot go through you have a lookalike but by god's grace it is say that even the name of ashare is engraved in the gates of the celestial city he overcame hallelujah you who can overcome. We think about Simeon and Levy. Simeon and Levy are also very interesting brothers. You know the Bible actually among all the 12 brothers, these ones have a name. They are called the instruments of cruelty. Genesis 49:5. This is what their father gave them. You know when you look at your children and this we know at times you look at the name I gave to my son and wonder oh God will this name ever materialize I have called my son David the king of Israel but there's nothing about him that can make him anywhere close to even becoming a leader not only of himself these ones were given a name instruments of cruelty I want you to take your mind back when their only sister Dina was raped In Genesis 34, what Levy and Simeon did and you know they used to do it as a pair. We are told they went in, they came in and you know devised some deception to the Sheckchammites. They you know circumcised them and when the wound was at its climax the third day they came now walking with machetes and they ensured no man in the village was alive to a level that their own father had to disappear from where they used to live. For sure these guys were not anything good. These are the people you don't need in your phone book. It is interesting to note that Levy even if he is associated also with Simeon the Lord was happy about him one time. You know when he stood firm in the matter of the golden calf God was happy and he said Levy because of what you've done to avoid people worshiping idols I will reward you with something good. What will it be? I'll reward you with the office of the priesthood. But we are told that aside, he had harbored a deep tendency for revenge. Weaknesses that can make you never to get to heaven. There are people here, especially on this side, the ladies I know. He is married to the AMM leader. I wish I knew the wife to Maji. And just ask her oneonone. Do you remember that mistake elder did to you 23 4 months and 3 days ago? 23 years. He's telling him I remember we were in our third year in the University of Nairobi. It was just outside there. You know where the monument is 1993 December. I will never forgive you for that. Those kind of people don't think you are alone. Levy is one of you. Levy is one of you. But no matter how once he was and Simeon, they are recorded in the name of the overcomers. Hallelujah. You too can overcome. We think about Zebulun. And maybe this will be the last so that I don't do so much time with background. There's some message I want you to get about why Dan was lost. I'm only bringing or making a case. Zebulun again on the other hand he is also a good man. He is called you know he had the strength of valor. You know what is valor that is courage great courage in face of danger and especially when it comes to battle. And for sure that is what uh Zebulun did when the king of that time he was called u judge deborah was fighting the canonites. His own commander of the army is on one side Barack and the Canonites king have brought also a commander on this side called Ceera. Many of the tribes of Israel feared that I do not have the manpower that is equal to fight the Canaanites. No, but you know what Zebulun said? Where my sons and my daughters just rise up with the Lord in us. We will help Barak to fight the Canaanites. And they came up so tightly that there was no space for Ceera to even send a single a single arrow. These were the men we hear in scripture. When Gideon was fighting the Medidianites, the guys of Zebulun stood up, the men of valor, great courage in times of uh you know danger. When David was fighting King Saul after he was coronated as king, it is the Zebulunians, if that is English, who came for his hand. But we are told no matter how good that was, that was the face we knew. They also had a weakness. And this is a weakness of the people of new life. I know you many of you. Can I tell you which is that weakness? They were itinerate wanderers. What amando itinerate wanderers? When I came to Nairobi, my name is Maja. I settled in Guay 44. Before the end of that year, I had gone to Roy And when the year was now fully ending in December, I found myself in Kawangare, three cities in Nairobi within a year. And before I knew it, I came to Karen. My friend, I used 3 hours to come here in the morning. And I tell you before this year ends, I will also move to another neighborhood. Eight neighborhoods in 2 years. You are not alone. If you are here, don't worry. You are just like pastors. Our books are always in boxes because we move around every minute. We have a brother here called Zebulun. Actually, Moses himself uses that word in Deuteronomy 33:18, the tribe of the going out people. their work itinerate wonderings but we are told no matter what they did they overcame that weakness because it happened the work of the Lord interdependence factor but they are recorded in the role of the overcomers regardless of these traits my brothers and sisters they were redeemed hallelujah Judah Asher Simeon Levy and Zebulun with their character frailties when eternity curtains are flipped They will all be there. Hallelujah. This only attests to the unfathomable compassion of our long-suffering God. And by the way, let me tell you, it is good to note even this is not a thought about this message that each of the redeemed on earth that is you and me who shall enter the celestial city of heaven will enter there through the gate that bears the name of the patriarch among this list who closely resembles you. So ask the AMA member only the men. Please ladies don't ask anyone. Let the men ask the one sitting next to you, which gate do you think you will enter through? That one can tell you what they are struggling with. And because of that, I know not many will say, my gate is Judah, last of the flesh. They will not accept. They will say, you know me, I'm a man who is courage in terms of battle. Uhhuh. I don't know whether your gate will be for Zebulun. I don't know whether your gate will be for Simeon and Levy. People of deception. No h revenge. I don't know whether you'll be for a you know you are no longer there. I don't know whether you'll be for Simeon. I don't know. For me I pray whichever gate I am in I may be found in there. Amen. And I pray it is also one message for you. And now the very climax. Why then did Dan get lost? Why was he omitted? Why is it that he failed the test of showing himself a man like a patriarch who he was and find his name in the sealed people of God? In Revelation 7, the Bible uses only one word, idolatry. In Judges, in Judges 18, it was the tribe of Dan that started from all the 12 to turn its people away to idolatry. When they moved from where they were, they went to Lish. They conquered that city. Scripture tells us that they even changed all the billboards of the city. They said, "This city from today will never be called Lish. It will be called after our patriarch, our own our forefather Dan." And so today in the Bible it's called the city of Dan. But what is known about the city of Dan under the reigns of the likes of King Rahobam. They actually went ahead to have a place of worship that competed with the real legitimate worship in Jerusalem. Imagine we are now worshiping here in New Life and then a few of us stand and say no hookah. They go and you know prepare an alternative place of worship elsewhere. And you see what they put there are golden calves. They tell them no you don't have to go to new life to worship Jehovah the creator of heaven and earth who will make a golden calf for you here when you go there just you know kneel down worship that cup that is your god. They began to compete for worship with god something that the lord doesn't tolerate. Now it may look funny for you that you see idolatry. This is the same thing people have done everywhere and they are forgiven. Why God you are unfair. Let me unpack for you what idolatry is for you to know that for sure in his own judgment God was right to have his name scrubbed from the list of overcomers. And as I tell you this, think about it yourself. Now scripture today, the Bible, God's word speaks about sins that are less likely to release a sinner to repentance. sins that are you are involved probably in gossip. You even break the fourth commandment. You know the epitom of all the 10 that you can quickly repent and come back. But we have a record of sins. The Bible says they are less likely to release the sinner to repentance. And one of them actually I would say the father and mother and uncle of all of them is idolatry. Why? Because idolatry touches on the Godfirst principle of the first commandment. Now camera man allow me just to walk a little bit front and ask if I was to give you today an exam where do we find the first commandment and how does it start? I can bet 95% will fail. They will tell me today the first commandment starts. Let's go together. You shall have no other gods besides me. And that is not true. The Lord in the holy decalogue doesn't start with what we ought to do. No, he starts with what he has done for me. So you go back one verse behind in verse two of Exodus 20. It is says, I am the Lord your God who took away who who did what? Took you out from the land of bondage. So have no other gods before me. In that verse two alone, we find a summary of that singular epic event where they I mean the Israelites were gotten out of the land of bondage. They were to pick a lamp. They were to keep it in their houses and then on the day 10, 11, 12, they were to keep it. Then on the 14th, they were to slaughter it and have that blood, you know, on the doorpost. That lamp was a symbol of Jesus who in centuries to come was to become you know the atoning Passover of all the righteous. It is the same lamb that John when he saw in John 1:29 he says look behold the lamb of God that takes away what sins of the world. That lamb that was you know whose blood was shed in Egypt was you know a type of Christ. It was to be a symbol of what would happen in the years to come. It was typifying Jesus. You see the good thing with it is both the Israelites camp and the Egyptians come there was death. While the firstborns of the Egyptians were dying themselves. Here we had a lamp that was dying on behalf of the life of the firstborn in the Hebrews camp. And that lamp was Jesus. And so if we believe so that Jesus is that Passover lamp, it means verse two is not for them. It is also for us. It's like Jesus is saying, remember I took my own blood to assure your salvation. Today you are an overcomer. And therefore with that which I have done for you, I gave out my life. Now do this. Start walking in the near newness of life. Love God supremely in the first four commandments and love your neighbor as yourself in the other six commandments. He begins with what he has done for us, not what he he tells us to do. Praise the Lord. That is the commandment, the principle that Dan now is interfering with. That is the principle that Dan is saying. It doesn't matter. I will still have an alternative place of worship. And God who does not tolerate anything of that kind, he comes on board. And you see my friends in this Godfast principle it is an injunction that the Lord has to preserve a particular space that is in every of our hearts here. Let me tell you this that in every of us who are seated here there is a space that God deems his in your heart. that place should not have any other thing, any other someone if that's English. And you see what the Lord does, he gives us this commandment as an injunction to preserve that space. In this commandment, he communicated his displeasure not only against worship of sculptured idols, not only as a reminder of giving God the first place in our lives, but also as a command that there will be absolutely no God sharing in our lives. Did you hear that? No God sharing. You know what that that means? That the Lord does not want to be our highest God, the supreme God. No, he doesn't need to be so. Yes, he is the supreme because there are other gods here of money of other things. He can be known. So, but to you as an individual, he should never be a supreme or the highest god. Highest god means I have 20 of them. I have ranked them in order of priority and at the very first it is him. He is jealous of that. He says I do not want to be your highest god. All I need is to be your only god. Praise the lord. Not highest but only. And this is what now Dan was playing around with. So if I was to ask you seated there as a man, what is that that has taken the place of God in your life? If there is anything you have participated in idolatry, the sin that made done to be excluded in the role of overcomers and don't think that your fate is any better. It is now I have to reconsider my life. Let me give you a few quotes and we end there. Ellen White in manuscript number 126 of 1901 says, "Anything that is made the subject of undue thought and admiration absorbing the mind is a God chosen before the Lord." End of quote. Is there anything as men who are here that you know is subject of our undue thought and admiration? Is there something in our lives that absorbs the mind that becomes a God chosen before the Lord? Some of us we have packed you know the newest 2025 Subaru Forester even you know how it is producing the sound. You can tell my friend if someone does a mistake of even you know doing to scratch only half a cime of that car I cannot take it. You will go with it home bring it back tomorrow when it is the same way I brought it. It tells you it takes the value even more than the even the wife cannot even ride in it. Hallelujah. If it has taken such a slot, it becomes the subject of undue thought and admiration absorbing my mind. It becomes a God chosen before the heavenly father who should have that place the first place in my life. Hallelujah. She goes on anything that diverts the mind from God assumes the form of an idol. And that is why there's very little power in the church of God today. Idolatry is trading the space that rightfully belongs to God. Is it soccer? I thank God today by the way that it is not a soccer season World Cup. Some people will just be on on the please your game your game you know like last World Cup when Kenya was playing with Germany. You remember that time we had just you know won Spain and then Kenya versus Germany. You remember that time? Why are you laughing? Because you know Kenya cannot get there. If we are defeated by even Uganda, please it is because the Adventist have refused to take up their slots in that you know uh Harambeistas that time our mind will be elsewhere leaving the worship of Jehovah. Quickly listen to this. Parts and prophets page 305. Jehovah the eternal self-existent uncreated one himself the source and sustainer of everyone is the lord entitled to supreme reverence and worship. Man is forbidden to give to any other object the first place in his affections or his service. And then very serious listen to this. Whatever we cherish that tends to lessen our love for God or interfere with the service due to him of that we make a God. End of quote. Let me repeat that last part. Anything you and I who are here we cherish that can lessen your love for God and interfere with the service due to him like what you are doing here today that becomes an idol. Me and Dan we are equal. For me this disturbs me interfering with the service due to him. Today you and I have even refused to take up roles in God's church. You are the first elder like my elder that role. Just allow me to be a bystander. Imagine you can also put yourself in this statement. That which I cherish to a level that it interferes with the service due to my Jehovah has become an idol. That excuse I give because of the blessings he has shared with me of a good job. Then I say I cannot serve you. That in itself becomes an idol. Some of us used to come to church very early when we were youths when we got kamushiki here I began now at 9:30 when we got married because they know the first year you know is honeymoon I was coming when the lesson is ending when the lord blessed us with twins two beautiful daughters one is called Jane and the other one is John you know those names I now started coming one Sabbath in a month when I get the fifth born I'm coming I'm no longer coming I'm telling my wife, you go and represent me. Is it that the blessings of Jehovah have become a barrier to me serving him? That becomes a god. And so no one should be talking about Dan why he was excluded. We too can fall into such a similar place. He says he does not entertain god sharing. Absolutely no. I desire to be given first place in your life. Today we have so busy schedules that at times you have to spend the Sabbath at home resting because your eyes cannot even open. How you are waking up at 4:00 a.m. and sleeping at 1. 4 a.m. and sleeping at 1. Monday to Friday on Sabbath it's a free day. My friend that can be a good reason but if you are staying at home you're missing the communion with the Lord the fellowship with his people. that also becomes a god in your life. To others, we are even too busy to maintain a meaningful time for prayer, for Bible study, for family worship. Let me tell you, if anything comes in between you and your God, that has become an idol. And lastly, but not least, my brothers, we read, "Our creator demands our supreme devotion, our first allegence." Today many have created idols for themselves. Business no to some their lands, others their houses, others their merchandise. All these are their idols. And then Ellen White you know comes powerfully and says businesses business enterprises are prosecuted with zeal and energy while the service of God is made a secondary consideration. Family worship is neglected. Secret prayer is forgotten. These are idolattors. Do you see where we are? Some of us, our businesses are thriving with a degree of professionalism that the department I have been given to head in. But when you come to my company my friend even walking style changes how it looks from the outside you will know there is a leader in this particular company but that church where you worship you are still in a church that has an architectural design done in 1962 and we've never seen the light of day. I don't know if somebody if you are getting me just raise your hand. Praise the Lord. The Bible says here for us that the Lord has blessed today your businesses they are prosecuted with zeal and energy while the service of Jehovah is made a secondary consideration. You cannot even show up for church board on time because you see I need to meet a client. [Music] Brothers, I will end there. And as I end there, I want you to touch your neighbor. Just tell them we are finished. We are doing a summary. Mr. K, I don't like you know to disturb people while sleeping in God's church because it's the house of their father. But when I'm ending, I at least make a summary. Please just touch her. I know she was very much dead. Tell her it is already time. But I need you to hear the very last words. Now what am I saying friends? Dan was a legitimate son of Jacob. He was present in all the spiritual milestones but only missed at the very tail end where it all mattered most. In his wisdom, God made a provision to balance his weaknesses with the strengths of his brothers. But it was never good enough for Dan. with all their you know inherent sinful tendencies Judah Reuben God Napali and all the brothers will be there. Hallelujah. But it is a sad reality that the name of Dan was found missing in the role of the sealed people of God in the role of the overcomers. He was crapped out. Why would he be eternally excluded? It was something we discuss here. the scene of idolatry that is trading God's space. Friends, he had this gentleman Dan had an opportunity of showing himself a man by preserving God's space but he failed. Let that fate not befall us. I have a few questions for you. Are we involved in the idolatry of God sharing in our lives? Has anything become the subject of undue thought admiration in our lives more than even God? When we get home, the children want to sleep. I'm there, you know, telling them no. When you see the advert for news beginning, you know, you are holding your remote, you call your family quickly in a very, you know, army like, you want them to pray while one of your eyes is open because I don't want the news to start. I need to see how the pope, you know, what happened, whether he is an African. And it has to be a prayer halfhazardly done for the ladies who love soap operas. When you see yours is now about to come, the children are brought in in a majestic way and one of them is assigned to pray because they will pray a short prayer. Hurry up, my friend. Just pray. Pray that you're going to sleep and they have to rush that prayer quickly so that when they leave now, you can watch those things that do not even have names that don't even make sense. Dominuendo estto very serious. Unless it is even translated to you. You never studied Latin, not even French, not even Kikuyu. You don't even know what it is saying, but you are there. The question is, have we cherished such to a level that they lessen our love for God or to interfere with the service that is due to Jehovah? Have we prosecuted our businesses with zeal and energy so big that the service of God is made a secondary consideration? Has my work schedule become a hindrance to me serving the Lord? Could we have become so busy that our family worship is neglected? That secret prayer is forgotten. That Bible study at home is only done when convenient. We even become leaders of church at study and I will only study on Friday night because tomorrow I'm supposed to teach. I cannot even study over the week. Has that become the case? And I will tell you my brothers if any of the above questions has an an affirmative answer to you then it is time you reconsidered your life my fellow member and any other ways here if there's any of those things that you say yes I think I have forgotten even time for family my wife and my children don't see me anymore as the priest protector you know and father of that home they no longer you are losing it because that family is your very first place of worship that family is your first church maja. It is not where we are here. Putting in serious suits like this one of mine. You know, this one is custom made from Afghanistan. It is not here. My priestly garments first begin at home. If I have no time for that home, let me also know that I've practiced the sin of Dan. We have this story for our example. We don't have to be eternally lost. We can overcome the sin that is less likely to release the sinner to repentance. God, my brothers, has created a space in you that he deems his. But as a loving God, he desires that we preserve it as his voluntarily and willingly. He desires that our exclusive devotion becomes his. He expects that we preserve his rightful place in our lives. Do you know which is that place? Him being first, him being last, and him being best in all we do. [Music] Pass the ball. Pass the ball. [Music] I care not for riches, older. We shall rise with this song. Lord, I care not for riches. But for [Music] you, I will make sure heaven. Heat. Heat. [Music] So tell me Jesus [Music] my is my name is my [Music] name in the mighty Is my name [Music] [Applause] [Music] written like the son of the sea? Yeah. [Music] Heat. Heat. [Music] Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. is my name on [Music] [Applause] my [Music] Heat. Heat. Yeah. [Music] Heat. Yeah. Heat. [Music] Yes, my [Music] name is Jesus. One more [Music] [Applause] time in the world of my king. is my name [Applause] [Music] written. Thank you. Thank you. With that question lingering in our minds, as we honestly reflect on our lives, and as we look forward to the soon return of our Lord and Savior, who will not be asking for something small, but will be judging righteously as If we think about that and we ponder about the message, it is now [Music] time. I've been instructed by our speaker that all men in the room to take their time and reflect. And if you feel that you associate with the characters that have been expressed here that at some point though you've been in the group in the team but at some point in life you have stepped aside. This is the time that you need to step back and get your rightful place. And I am pleading and asking all men that if you feel that in one way or the other, you have not done what is expected of you to stand as a man. This is the time for you to step forward for a word of prayer such that by the time that the names will be read in that beautiful gate your name be written there. If you feel you need that special prayer kindly step forward. we've seen done. It is not a question of your background. It doesn't matter what you do. It is about what God is looking at with his watchful eyes, seeing how you've been operating even in God's church as Adventist man. And you find many a times they call upon men. You wonder whether you are a man or a woman. You guess whether you should also step forward. You get confused. This is the time that we need to come back to our God. Such a man is the one that need to come forward. I thank God that from what has been presented, you and I, we are still redeemable. God still has got space for us. We've seen the likes of Levy how their behavior was but still their names as John saw in Revelation their names are there in the gates and we'll go through those gates. So as a man of God has given you the breath of life. You know there are times that men are called upon. You are the first one to leave and the last to come. This is the time to make a change in your life. Thank you. Thank you my brothers. I'm also stepping together with you cuz I'm also a man who at some point feel confused not knowing that we need to take our space even in our families. The worship as a priest is it functional? Is it working? Or we do it hastily because we need to do other things. Anything that comes before God to you, then that one becomes your God. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. We serve a God who is a redeemer and there's no sin that he cannot forgive. We serve a God who looks at us as what we are right now, not what we used to be or what we think we ought to be or we are going to be. Is God who is there for us this day. Shall we pray? Loving Father, we come before you this holy Sabbath with our hearts full of thanksgiving. Because one thing we have learned from you is that your hands are always stretched out to bring us back home. that no child of yours who has ever strayed away decides to come back that you will all you will forsake. For that reason Lord we just want to thank you because of your love that is so deep so white that covers all of us that forgives all our sins that my father we ask and we plead that may you forgive us. We have stepped in front here because as men, as priests in our homes, we've seen where we have failed you. We've seen, Lord, where we have wronged even our families. We have seen, Lord, that we have not stood in our rightful places to today. Lord, this afternoon, we come pleading with you. May you forgive us and give us a new lease of life, a new start with you. that my father our homes may be turned into small heavens that our homes may be homes of peace. We have been told that as men we have been called to provide in one way or the other we have failed even our own families that we have not provided. Almighty father may you forgive us and help us that from now going forward we may do that which is allocated unto us. We want to thank you Almighty God because as men we have failed even your church when we are called upon to stand and be strong. As men we have shown that spirit of cowardice. We have always drawn back. But today my father we are praying that may you hold our hands that when called upon we may stand strong for you. we may defend the faith which we profess that we are children of God. Lord, I pray for our children. I pray for our wives. I pray for our mommies that my father may they through us see you see your love and receive your provision. We want to thank you Lord for your man's servant whom you have used and we want to thank you for this church that dedicated this Sabbath to be Sabbath of men. But all of us Lord we are benefited. We thank you that my father when you call for people to be counted may we stand to be counted as your children. Bless this church Lord. Bless this field. Bless this division. Bless this conference that all of us Lord may stand for you. Our mommies who are here, our daughters who are here with us and our young sons Lord God we commit them to you that as a church may we may walk forward being led by your spirit in the right direction. May your grace be sufficient now and forever. In Jesus name I pray. Amen. [Music] 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[13.2s] Praise the Lord. Amen. Praise the Lord
[15.9s] again.
[18.1s] Uh thank you so much my elder though you
[20.9s] made me feel
[22.0s] shy. I don't know what I'm going to
[24.2s] report to my
[25.7s] boss that I'm at the pull pit where he
[28.2s] served only one Sabbath. So we'll be
[30.5s] equal. We'll be even because this is
[33.0s] also one Sabbath probably in this Queen
[35.4s] Quinn. Nonetheless, I want to take this
[38.2s] moment to thank the Lord for such a
[41.0s] great opportunity to come and fellowship
[42.9s] with you on a high Sabbath. You know the
[45.5s] AMM Sabbath is a very high
[47.6s] Sabbath. These are the men who have
[50.1s] allowed the Lord to use them as they
[52.7s] walk in the footsteps of Jesus. Nothing
[55.8s] bigger can be said than that. And so in
[59.4s] a special way we want to thank the
[61.3s] entire department of adventist men's
[63.6s] ministries led by that general maja. You
[66.7s] see even the name alone tells you it is
[69.1s] not you know a department that is joking
[71.8s] and not only the name please our leader
[74.3s] you can also rise and wave again ju just
[77.0s] just look at that body and tell me
[79.8s] whether you think there's a joke there.
[82.6s] So I am happy that he's not standing
[84.5s] here next to me because the visitors
[87.1s] will not know who is the pastor and who
[89.2s] is the armor
[90.3s] leader. We want to thank God for the
[94.1s] organizers of this great day that the
[97.0s] Lord will speak to us in a special way
[99.6s] not only now but as he has done in the
[101.8s] morning and also he will do in the
[105.1s] afternoon. I also have appreciation for
[108.1s] the pastorial team
[110.4s] uh headed by your senior pastor Dr.
[112.7s] Herea a good friend of mine when I
[115.8s] confirmed availability for this day he
[118.2s] extended a very warm welcome and so I
[121.0s] know he's not around he's out on other
[123.2s] engagements I want to say I'm grateful
[125.8s] we also want to thank the eldership for
[128.7s] ensuring that this day is such colorful
[132.4s] and we want to glorify the lord for
[135.4s] you I'm here enjoying you know this
[140.1s] day of a family of faith where my leader
[144.6s] Elder Nemiah Juna serves. I was able to
[148.5s] see him in the morning and he was
[150.1s] telling me you know you are the visitor.
[152.5s] I am not a visitor. I am a member and at
[156.4s] least I felt I'm at home with his
[159.4s] presence. I bring you regards from my
[162.2s] president pastor Benjamin.
[165.0s] He is
[166.3s] out and he told me when I come
[169.9s] today together with the greetings that
[172.3s] were already shared earlier on by my
[174.6s] wife from our children those two sets
[178.2s] that I'll bring them to God's people. I
[180.5s] hope you have received
[183.2s] them. Um before I begin the message
[186.6s] today allow me also to recognize a
[188.8s] special team a team that is close to my
[190.9s] heart. Those are the nurses of New Life
[195.7s] SDA
[196.9s] church. When I speak about nurses, you
[200.4s] may not
[201.7s] know but the women ministries of this
[204.6s] church visited our entity sometimes ago
[207.2s] last year fourth quarter. They had
[210.5s] sponsored you know evangelistic campaign
[212.8s] in a place called Kangwa in Kyaga
[215.1s] County. And we thank the Lord for their
[217.8s] ministry that ended up opening a church
[220.6s] there. They baptize 18 people. No, is
[222.6s] they baptized? Yes. 18 people. And we
[225.1s] are grateful. And on that material, you
[227.0s] know, climax sabbath
[231.6s] the the bus was there and they were all
[235.4s] dressed in that nurse uniform. You know
[237.8s] the nurse uniform. So we are very
[240.4s] grateful. the team that was led last
[242.3s] year by uh sister Herin Onach. We still
[247.2s] remember and we pray that also this year
[250.0s] you are also very welcome to come
[253.6s] over. As I was planning to come
[256.8s] yesterday and I began off from Meu. I
[260.7s] was wondering and worried how am I going
[263.5s] to stand here today and speak on an AMM
[267.3s] Sabbath while I am
[269.2s] single. That thought disturbed me along
[271.8s] the way when I posed at Moa. I was
[274.8s] saying, "What if a miracle happens and I
[277.5s] find myself an a full AM
[280.5s] member?" All I didn't know is that my
[283.0s] sorrow was in vain because something was
[285.4s] cooking in the background. And so I
[287.7s] landed in the city. I was ushered in by
[291.8s] your leaders to a place here for
[294.7s] accommodation. And I kept on speaking,
[297.1s] you know, to my family, to my wife,
[299.9s] telling her that I arrived safely. You
[302.2s] know, I was welcomed and I'm now ready.
[304.8s] My tie is set. Only for me to get to
[308.1s] this compound and find her welcoming
[311.6s] me. This is, you know, have you ever
[314.2s] been given a surprise where you get 10
[316.1s] nil? No clue, no nothing. And you see
[319.4s] our leader AMM leader our leader here
[322.5s] Elder Maja knew what was happening and
[324.5s] he couldn't tell me. So we are going to
[326.2s] meet after uh behind here uh for the
[330.6s] corruption they did with our executive
[333.5s] secretary's wife sister Mary
[339.9s] uh
[341.6s] Mala otherwise my wife thank you for
[344.2s] accepting to surprise
[346.0s] me I now feel I can you know share as a
[349.8s] full member so thank you thank you very
[353.8s] much so So as I stand here to share
[356.6s] God's word, I recognize there are those
[358.7s] who began the service earlier on than
[361.0s] me. We want to thank the Lord for the
[363.2s] team that was here very early in the
[364.7s] morning from 8. We thank the Lord also
[367.0s] for the Sabbath school team including
[369.3s] the church at study. We thank the Lord
[371.7s] for the children teachers that were
[373.1s] outside there in their classes. We are
[375.2s] also very grateful for the team of
[376.6s] chisters that have been standing in here
[379.0s] giving us you know such an experience of
[381.2s] heaven where we'll be praising the Lord
[383.0s] forever. So for all these themes, we
[385.3s] want to glorify the Lord for your
[386.9s] ministry. We also want to thank God for
[389.0s] the special messages brought in by the
[391.2s] choirs. We are grateful to see the Cina
[394.4s] church choir, our guest choir in the
[396.7s] emerald green. They have stood here, 22
[400.6s] ladies in green, 10 men and there was
[404.3s] one unseen choir member. I noticed and I
[407.9s] even felt, you know, energized and we
[410.2s] are grateful. They give us, you know, a
[412.8s] song that says
[421.8s] that for sure in this life we are living
[423.7s] in in this hard economic times when you
[427.0s] worry you only waste your own energy.
[430.0s] The best you can do is only to trust in
[432.4s] the Lord because even by worrying you
[434.7s] cannot add not only a centimeter of your
[437.4s] hair but even a second of your life you
[440.5s] cannot. So uh the canina choir may the
[444.7s] Lord bless you. They also added us you
[448.2s] know a beautiful song that is now the
[450.3s] thematic area of my message.
[459.4s] A very deep question to ask all of us.
[462.4s] When that day will
[464.1s] come as the judgment is ongoing as we
[467.4s] speak today in the courts of heaven
[469.8s] where the Lord is perusing over the
[471.6s] records that have been recorded by an
[473.4s] airing angels in heaven of whatever you
[475.4s] do whether from your mind with what you
[478.0s] do with your eyes and everything else.
[480.5s] And a time will come when that name will
[482.6s] be brought before the judgment table.
[484.7s] And Jesus will be there when that name
[486.6s] is heard and read. And he will say, you
[489.1s] know what, my father, I thank you for
[491.0s] allowing me to have been known in the
[492.7s] life of that gentleman, but I'm so sorry
[495.0s] and sad today that he refused to accept
[497.9s] me, may his name be forever scrapped
[500.3s] from the lamb's book of life. It is a
[503.0s] very, you know, serious matter. Anyone
[506.2s] of us who is here today who has ever at
[508.6s] any one time in their life accepted the
[510.6s] Lord Jesus that moment your name was
[513.5s] transferred into the lamb's book of life
[516.3s] every single individual even if you
[518.6s] accepted Jesus for 10 seconds your name
[521.0s] was written in the lamb's book of life
[523.4s] however that name is not written there
[525.3s] permanently a time will come when your
[528.1s] life account will be placed on the table
[531.2s] and at that time it will be decided
[533.8s] whether that name will continue to
[535.6s] remain in the lamb's book of life or
[537.8s] not. And you see this choir has told us
[541.1s] when that particular time will come. I
[543.6s] was an armor I'm an AM member. I was a
[546.2s] youth member. I was you know AWM member.
[549.7s] So at least my name was written there.
[552.2s] But what has transpired between the day
[554.2s] it was written and now? When those names
[556.9s] again will be flipped over, will your
[559.4s] name be written? Will your name be
[561.4s] called up yonder? What a wonderful
[564.1s] message. Uh Cassina choir, may the Lord
[566.6s] bless you. We want to thank God for all
[568.1s] the children's
[569.5s] sermon, a message that we have a God,
[573.3s] the God who tells you do not worship
[575.3s] other gods before me. He listens to the
[578.2s] cries of his people and he answers. We
[580.9s] have a powerful God. Thank you, Sister
[582.6s] Mary, for that. We also now want to
[585.2s] thank God
[587.4s] for new life, fifth gong avenue church
[591.5s] choir, the
[593.0s] great. You could see the greath. You saw
[596.3s] the men walking, the men in black. We
[599.0s] only know those men in black in very,
[601.0s] you know, weird moments, but they are
[603.4s] the ones who formed this church choir.
[605.9s] The men in black, you know, and then
[607.7s] they have tried to corrupt us with a UDA
[611.0s] tie. Oh, sorry. Sorry for that.
[614.9s] Uh and the ladies were blending them
[617.6s] well. We thank the Lord for that great
[620.1s] song that I will sing of that one person
[623.0s] who matters in my life. That is my
[625.0s] redeemer.
[626.6s] No other who deserves my allergies, my
[629.3s] praise, my homage, my worship except
[632.2s] that one that is my redeemer. So
[636.6s] uh New Life Church Choir, may the Lord
[639.6s] bless you.
[643.5s] I will be speaking
[645.6s] English an English that I was taught by
[648.2s] one of your members who is
[650.3s] here sister Alice
[653.4s] Okov my English teacher those years in
[659.3s] Kura slightly after
[662.1s] independence was teaching me there and
[664.2s] I'm grateful where is she where is my
[665.8s] English teacher sister Alice where are
[668.7s] you oh she is here please. Thank you.
[672.2s] Thank you so much, mom. Seeing you here
[674.5s] makes me, you know, feel a bit tensed. I
[677.7s] hope I'll remember the rules of grammar.
[681.0s] And it was not just me. She also taught
[683.1s] my wife and we are grateful. So with
[686.2s] that said, allow me to take you to God's
[689.2s] word. Let us go together to the book of
[691.9s] first kings chapter
[693.5s] 2:2. I'm reading from English Standard
[696.6s] Version.
[698.5s] The Bible says, second part, be strong
[702.1s] and show yourself amen. Be strong and
[707.0s] show yourself amen. May the Lord add a
[710.0s] blessing to the reading of his word.
[713.9s] Amen. I may not promise here that I'm
[716.6s] doing a 15 minutes or 20 minutes
[719.3s] message, but I can promise that before
[722.2s] you know it, I will have ended. The
[725.2s] message is titled the man eternally
[729.2s] excluded. Let us
[731.6s] pray. Our gracious father in heaven, we
[734.8s] want to thank you for the opportunity
[736.9s] that is ours to listen to your word this
[739.6s] morning. As I stand here, Lord, I pray
[743.2s] that I will only be a vessel to be used
[745.5s] of you and through my lips that I will
[749.0s] hear you speak and all of us in this
[751.6s] congregation will hear you speak to us.
[754.3s] May this message have a place in our
[757.0s] hearts. May it move us closer to you
[758.9s] than before. For this we ask in Jesus'
[761.5s] name.
[763.5s] Amen. The man eternally
[767.4s] excluded. Someone said that uh the words
[770.6s] of a dying person are the wettiest and I
[773.9s] cannot agree enough when I read of what
[777.0s] David told his son while he was at his
[780.1s] dying bed. The words that we have
[782.9s] written here resonate or are similar to
[785.8s] the same same words that was spoken by
[788.1s] Moses while he was passing on the baton
[791.0s] of leadership to Joshua. They are the
[793.4s] same words that God used in the language
[795.6s] of prophet Nathan while he was making a
[798.5s] covenant between God and David in 2
[801.7s] Samuel chapter 12. And those are the
[804.6s] words now that David kept in his heart
[807.3s] when he was a very old man about 972 BC.
[811.8s] While he was dying, he decided to call
[814.4s] his son the heir of the throne, brother
[817.2s] Solomon. And he told him, Solomon, I
[819.8s] want you to listen kely. It has come a
[822.2s] time when I can no longer be near you
[824.2s] anymore. I am dying. I will go in the
[827.0s] way of all the earth. Soon I will be
[829.4s] buried with my forefathers, with my
[831.4s] ancestors. But I have something to tell
[833.8s] you. Over the main past of the years, I
[837.5s] have advised you severally time and time
[840.1s] again. But this time, my breath is not
[842.9s] even strong to give you a lecture. I can
[845.2s] only make very few statements. And he
[848.0s] says, "Be strong and show yourself a
[852.9s] man." What was he supposed to do by
[856.5s] showing himself a man? In the preceding
[858.9s] verses, verse three and verse four, he
[861.0s] says, "It is only by keeping the
[863.0s] statutes of Jehovah." This was an
[865.4s] anxious father at his dying bed. He
[868.3s] thought, you know, the best thing I can
[870.2s] do for my son is to make him get closer
[873.1s] to the Lord than even living an
[875.2s] inheritance or temporal goods. That
[878.1s] keeping close to the Lord was to be in
[881.1s] part responsible for the legacy he will
[884.5s] leave. It was to be in part responsible
[887.0s] for the success of his
[889.2s] leadership. As long as he was faithful
[891.8s] to keep the statutes of Jehovah, he was
[894.4s] to remain in leadership. And God tells
[896.7s] him, it will not just be Solomon. It
[899.0s] will be every other leader in all the
[901.4s] ages for Israel will always come from
[903.9s] your loins. And so today, as we look at
[907.1s] this
[907.9s] matter, the message of what it means to
[910.9s] be a man to keep statutes of Jehovah is
[913.4s] what we want to analyze. And I want to
[915.6s] invite all of us to look at the life of
[918.1s] one patriarch who was given, you know,
[921.2s] an opportunity by God to show himself a
[923.8s] man. An opportunity to become part of
[926.4s] the sealed people of God. An opportunity
[929.0s] to show the world that for sure I have
[931.9s] shown myself to become a man. But he
[934.8s] failed. And at the end of the day, he
[937.4s] was eternally excluded from the role of
[939.7s] the overcomers, from the sealed people
[941.8s] of God. His life as has been recorded in
[945.5s] scripture will become today an object
[948.5s] lesson. And as I walk out of that door,
[951.7s] I should go asking myself, can that fate
[954.5s] befall me as it befell this patriarch?
[958.1s] And his name was
[960.6s] done. When we look at the
[963.9s] Bible in Genesis chapter 35, we find a
[968.2s] list of the sons of Jacob. 13 12 sons
[972.0s] and one daughter. We find you know
[974.6s] Reuben as the firstborn preceded by
[977.6s] Simeon then Levy then Judah and then
[980.5s] number five comes a guy who was called
[983.1s] Dan. He had a brother a maternal brother
[985.8s] called Naftali and then other children
[988.4s] came. Dina was there as the only
[992.3s] daughter of Jacob. We had Gad, Asher,
[995.0s] Isaka, Zebulun, Joseph and the very last
[998.4s] born who was called Benjamin. So Dan
[1000.9s] comes in from this particular family as
[1003.1s] the fifth son. He was born to Rachel's
[1005.8s] servant who was called Bilha and he had
[1009.4s] many other
[1011.1s] steps. But scripture is you know keen to
[1014.2s] record to us a history about him. We are
[1017.6s] told in Genesis 35 he is mentioned as a
[1020.2s] very legitimate son of the patriarch. In
[1023.3s] Genesis
[1024.4s] 45:49 when the father was giving a
[1027.4s] prophecy of what will befall his
[1029.4s] children in the future we find among all
[1032.0s] the 12 sons of Jacob Dan is also listed
[1035.2s] there and among the many things that the
[1037.5s] father sees as a prophecy of his days
[1039.6s] you know what done you shall become a
[1041.9s] judge you shall govern your people the
[1044.0s] children of Israel and sure as the Lord
[1047.1s] was you know illuminating this prophecy
[1049.3s] in the mind of the patriarch while he
[1051.1s] was dying it happened. So it is from the
[1054.1s] tribe of Dan that we find the most
[1056.4s] mysterious judge of Israel who ruled
[1059.5s] God's people for 20 years. The judge
[1062.2s] whose hands could do anything. He was
[1065.0s] able even to carry such a great
[1067.2s] sanctuary and throw
[1069.5s] it to the hills of Mong. You know his
[1073.1s] name? He was called
[1075.2s] Samson the Nazerite. He came or
[1078.2s] descended directly from the tribe of
[1080.2s] Dan. And so for sure as the father had
[1082.7s] prophesied that you shall be a judge,
[1084.6s] you shall govern your people. It is so
[1086.7s] happened. Fast forward in the history
[1089.0s] numbers chapter 2 when after these
[1091.9s] tribes went over from the land of bond
[1094.9s] that is Egypt when they are in the
[1097.8s] wilderness and the Lord you
[1102.9s] know when the Lord directs that we need
[1105.5s] a new office the office of a priest and
[1107.7s] high priest and so he tells them make me
[1110.4s] a sanctuary that I will dwell in your
[1112.1s] midst the Lord made a reving arrangement
[1115.4s] at the very center we had the tabernacle
[1117.9s] And then all the sons were to surround,
[1120.5s] you know, the tabernacle. The Bible
[1122.8s] tells us that even the tribe of Dan was
[1125.9s] already given a place and a location
[1128.4s] where he would be. And so they pitched
[1131.1s] the tent on the northern side of the
[1133.0s] tabernacle, the tribe of Dan was also
[1135.3s] included there. We move forward. When
[1138.2s] Moses was dying, he had, you know, moved
[1141.0s] with all the Israelites for 40 good
[1143.8s] years in the wilderness. They have come
[1145.9s] to the verge of Jordan River. Moses is
[1148.8s] here now handing over the mantle to
[1150.8s] Joshua. He even remembers to mention the
[1153.8s] name of the tribe of Dan. And
[1155.8s] immediately after this mention, Joshua
[1158.4s] picks it up as a very legitimate tribe
[1161.1s] of Israel and he allocates them land in
[1163.8s] on the west side of Jerusalem once they
[1167.0s] crossed over Jordan River. All this time
[1170.1s] remember they are being mentioned along
[1172.3s] with their legitimate brothers. Great
[1174.5s] things are happening to them. But the
[1176.6s] most sad reality the Bible gives us is
[1179.2s] in Revelation chapter 7 when as the rest
[1182.6s] of his brothers are sealed for eternity
[1185.3s] as their names are called up yonder
[1187.6s] among the sealed people of God as they
[1190.0s] are being recorded in the role of the
[1192.3s] overcomers where you and I are
[1195.0s] represented. We hear the Bible telling
[1197.6s] us from verse 4 to8 of Revelation 7 that
[1200.9s] the name of Dan was
[1203.6s] excluded. It's a very serious thing. You
[1206.6s] are excluding the name of a legitimate
[1208.6s] patriarch, one who was in line with all
[1211.0s] his brothers right from the word go from
[1213.3s] when they were born all the way to the
[1215.5s] land of promise that is Canaan. But when
[1218.4s] the Lord is telling us in heaven I have
[1221.7s] put 12 gates. Each of the gates I've
[1223.9s] engraved the name of one of the sons of
[1226.1s] Jacob. The name of this patriarch by the
[1228.9s] name of Dan does not appear. All the
[1231.7s] other sons are there. It is even sad to
[1234.2s] know one of his sons you know Joseph has
[1236.8s] been given two equal slots in that list
[1239.4s] of the sealed people of God. He has you
[1241.8s] know a door recorded by his name Joseph
[1244.3s] and another door recorded by his
[1246.1s] firstborn son Manasse man that is the
[1249.6s] Lord has wiped my tears in a land where
[1254.2s] life was not very good for me he did it
[1256.6s] for me and so man comes in from Hebrew
[1259.7s] to say cost to forget I have forgotten
[1262.7s] all the problems I've suffered in prison
[1265.3s] I forgotten all the stress that were
[1267.8s] brought to me by my brothers when they
[1269.9s] sold me
[1271.6s] out as a slave. I have forgotten all my
[1275.3s] life as a youth. I spend in prison and
[1278.6s] now I have become the leader of Egypt.
[1280.7s] I'm the prime minister. When he got a
[1283.0s] son, he said, "You son, I'll give you
[1285.0s] the name of my heart." That the Lord has
[1287.3s] caused me to forget my problems. I will
[1289.8s] call you man. As Manasse. So, Joseph and
[1293.3s] Manasse, one family are given two equal
[1295.8s] slots and the name of Dan has been
[1298.6s] scrapped out.
[1300.2s] I tend to sit down and ask could God be
[1303.0s] this you know a sadist why and could
[1307.5s] such also a fate befall me children of
[1311.9s] God you are there in the list of active
[1315.6s] AMM members of new life you are there
[1318.6s] also even in a
[1320.0s] tie that is written AMM you look like a
[1324.0s] very legitimate member of that group you
[1326.3s] have been there in the role of those
[1327.9s] with wonderful families
[1329.5s] When you are given a chance to stand
[1331.0s] here with your family, you will
[1332.6s] introduce people to your delightful wife
[1335.0s] and children probably that have the ski
[1337.5s] of even playing violin in front of the
[1339.8s] congregation as your villagers are you
[1342.6s] know dividing ancestral land at home in
[1345.3s] Yaribache and Kanyamo. You are there you
[1348.8s] even have 10 acres of your own you've
[1350.6s] added while people are standing in who
[1353.3s] are living not only in rented houses in
[1360.9s] But your own
[1362.6s] house, you are recorded there. When
[1365.9s] people in the church today are standing
[1367.8s] in, if you have a social status or a
[1370.2s] position of
[1371.9s] influence, you also are recorded there.
[1376.4s] However, as the
[1378.4s] names are being called up yonder on
[1381.6s] that, you know, fateful day after the
[1383.6s] judgment is done, could it be that just
[1386.8s] like Dan, your name will be scrapped
[1389.0s] out? Your name will be excluded. You
[1391.1s] will now have to eternally get lost.
[1394.2s] That is the question. But the story of
[1396.6s] Dan affirms that it can happen. You may
[1399.4s] have walked with us all the way up to
[1401.4s] now, but something happens to
[1404.4s] you. And you see, while I was checking
[1406.8s] my Bible, I was wondering, did God do
[1409.1s] something? Was it that the Lord wanted
[1411.4s] Dan to get lost just like that? Was
[1413.6s] there a provision that was made? And the
[1415.8s] answer is yes. The Lord had made an
[1417.8s] interdependence arrangement for Dan not
[1420.5s] to be lost. The Bible tells
[1423.2s] us that each of the sons of Jacob as
[1426.7s] written in scripture had a weakness. All
[1429.0s] of them, each one of them, when we
[1431.6s] exclude dinner for our own mistakes. But
[1433.6s] all the sons, 12 of them, each had their
[1436.5s] own sinful tendencies that would affect
[1438.9s] their future. That would also have made
[1441.1s] them to be eternally excluded from the
[1443.3s] role of the overcomers, from the sealed
[1445.1s] people of God in Revelation 7. But God
[1447.8s] in his own wisdom made a provision for
[1450.4s] conquering those sinful tendencies, for
[1452.3s] conquering those weaknesses. How did he
[1454.6s] do it? It has been recorded to us in the
[1457.3s] book of Numbers chapter 2. The Lord, you
[1459.8s] know, outlines how he's prescribed the
[1462.4s] living arrangements of all the 12 tribes
[1465.7s] with the tabernacle at the very center.
[1467.8s] The Bible tells us three tribes were to
[1470.2s] be located on each of the four sides of
[1472.6s] the tabernacle, what you call a triad.
[1475.1s] And so on the east side of the
[1476.9s] tabernacle we had three Judah, Issacha,
[1479.9s] Zebulun. On the west side we had three
[1482.6s] another triad that is Ephraim, Manasse
[1485.7s] and Benjamin. On the southern side we
[1488.3s] had Reuben, Simeon and God. And now on
[1491.4s] the side of our interest today was on
[1494.1s] the north. The northern side the very
[1496.9s] first tribe that was there was Dan
[1499.1s] followed by his own maternal brother
[1501.0s] that is Naftali and then Asher.
[1504.2s] Why were they there? The Bible tells us
[1506.9s] this
[1508.3s] configuration that the Lord in his own
[1510.6s] wisdom prepared. What he wanted is the
[1513.7s] more industrious tribes were to be
[1515.7s] yolked with the more sedentary. Look at
[1518.2s] that particular balance. The more
[1520.0s] warlike like Simeon and Levy, they were
[1522.6s] to be, you know, uh coupled with the
[1525.1s] more peaceful. The more worldly like Dan
[1528.8s] were to be most they were to be coupled
[1531.4s] with the more spiritual. And those that
[1533.5s] were looking like they were aggressive
[1535.1s] of the sons of Jacob, they were coupled
[1537.9s] with the more timid. The Lord ensured
[1541.0s] that if my weakness is so, you know,
[1543.4s] outgoing, it is seen, it is a dominant
[1546.2s] one, I will couple you with one that
[1548.6s] will help to support to bring you up and
[1552.7s] try to cover your weaknesses. So every
[1555.5s] character and personality traits of the
[1557.5s] tribe will be balanced by the virtues of
[1560.2s] the other. the weaknesses balanced by
[1562.6s] the strength of the other and each
[1564.5s] tribe's strength was to be shared in
[1566.9s] support of another. Oh indeed God had
[1570.0s] made a provision and today I say praise
[1573.2s] his name. There could be a possibility
[1576.4s] amen members here that the bodies the
[1579.4s] Lord has brought you in your Christian
[1580.9s] journey today they have been placed
[1582.7s] there by God. Do you value them? They
[1586.8s] are there to balance your traits and
[1588.6s] improve you for eternity. So I don't
[1591.5s] know whether when you are doing when you
[1593.4s] are going for that soccer tournament
[1596.2s] where the ambassadors did 16 nil to the
[1599.3s] AMA members I don't know whether you
[1601.4s] look at you know that interdependence as
[1604.0s] a plan that the Lord has brought to
[1605.9s] improve you for eternity. This is what
[1608.6s] the Lord did for Dan. But with all that
[1611.7s] the Lord did for him for all those 40
[1614.7s] years in the wilderness, still Dan could
[1617.4s] not be helped. He ended up, you know,
[1619.6s] getting lost. It is a very sad
[1622.7s] thing. If you today you compare Dan to
[1626.4s] his brothers, you can judge for sure
[1629.3s] whether he qualified to be lost. Let me
[1631.2s] actually give you just a few of them for
[1633.2s] you to see what we are trying to speak
[1634.9s] about. The names of these brothers, they
[1637.9s] engraved in the gates of heaven of that
[1639.8s] celestial city. The apostle John saw
[1642.4s] them as entering the heavenly canon.
[1644.9s] Look at who they were. Let me give you
[1646.5s] an example of just a few. The very first
[1648.8s] one I will share with you is a gentleman
[1651.1s] called Judah. This was another AMM
[1653.1s] member. If he was there today, we'll be
[1655.3s] seeing him in a navy blue suit and you
[1657.6s] know a red tie written AMM. Now Judah
[1661.2s] was a good man. He was known among his
[1664.3s] family to be a man who you know was
[1666.8s] caring to the rest of his brothers. It
[1669.2s] is Judah alone who devised a plan of
[1672.8s] saving Joseph from the pit. Remember
[1674.9s] that story when they put him in there
[1677.7s] when all were now waiting for wild
[1679.7s] animals to come and devour their
[1681.4s] brother. Judah said oh no God let my
[1684.6s] life also disappear if I will not do
[1687.0s] something to help my brother. And he
[1688.5s] devised the plan. That is the plan that
[1690.7s] brought out Joseph from the pit. When
[1694.3s] you know they had gone to look for food
[1696.2s] in Egypt and they found their brother
[1698.4s] who recognized them without them
[1700.0s] recognizing him. The brother said, "Very
[1702.7s] good. This is my only brother Benjamin.
[1707.4s] What I will do? I'm going to have him
[1709.3s] held back. Let the other brothers go."
[1711.8s] And when Benjamin was caught and brought
[1713.9s] in into prison, it was Judah again who
[1717.2s] gave his life assurityity for his
[1719.5s] brother Benjamin. He said, "No, no, it
[1722.1s] cannot happen." Let me tell you, Joseph,
[1724.2s] and this time, remember, you didn't know
[1725.6s] that it was his brother. Please, the
[1727.4s] prince of Egypt, it is better you take
[1730.4s] my life and even kill me than, you know,
[1732.9s] put in prison my small brother called
[1735.2s] Benjamin. Allow me to remain as a
[1737.7s] collateral damage for my brother. Let
[1739.9s] him go. That was the man Judah, a very
[1742.6s] gracious man. But in as much as gracious
[1745.1s] as he was, the Bible says he had a
[1747.4s] weakness that would have made him miss
[1749.4s] heaven. What was the weakness? It is
[1751.4s] called the lust of the flesh. A weakness
[1754.9s] that is here shared by very many of us
[1757.4s] today. Lust of the flesh. Remember about
[1761.4s] the story in Genesis 38 of how he was
[1764.4s] entangled with his own daughter-in-law
[1766.8s] Tamar. Who does that? you become, you
[1770.2s] know, engaged sexually with your own
[1772.6s] daughter-in-law and we still call you a
[1774.9s] patriarch. Look at the people that came
[1777.0s] from his loins years later. His
[1779.0s] descendants, think about David, he was
[1781.5s] from the tribe of Judah. Think about how
[1784.0s] he had also a funny relationship with
[1786.6s] Uriah's wife, Bath Sheba, and whatever
[1789.2s] happened. Think about also the son also
[1791.8s] a descendant of Judah Solomon. How he
[1794.7s] was walking around you know with a
[1797.2s] thousand
[1799.0s] wives. If for
[1801.9s] me my heart beats at 72 flat because of
[1806.3s] one. What about when you have a
[1809.2s] thousand? Tell me
[1812.1s] this are people who follow the example
[1814.7s] of their patriarch. But it is nice to
[1817.0s] note here in the pulpit in as much as he
[1819.7s] struggled with such a weak weakness that
[1821.8s] is shared by many of us by his grace he
[1824.8s] overcame. And when the names are called
[1827.3s] up yonder the very first one in the book
[1829.8s] of revelation even if Judah is not the
[1831.8s] firstborn it is Judah. Praise the Lord.
[1836.0s] You too can overcome.
[1838.2s] We find another one another brother
[1841.0s] Asher. Asher was known also to be an
[1843.8s] interesting individual. He was also a
[1845.4s] good one. The Bible says he had a
[1847.3s] pleasant personality among his brethren.
[1850.2s] If you do Deuteronomy 33:24, it says he
[1853.3s] was acceptable to his brothers. Whenever
[1856.7s] you had time to sit down with him, you
[1859.0s] will just enjoy that company. If you
[1861.6s] need somebody to take you out, someone
[1863.9s] who will not embarrass you, you will not
[1865.9s] go to any other but aer. He was pleased
[1868.7s] unto his brothers. Anytime they had to
[1871.0s] sit with their brothers, they said,
[1872.7s] "Wow, I am proud to be associated with
[1874.9s] Aar and his tribe." But you see, no
[1877.8s] matter how good he was, he also had a
[1880.2s] problem, a weakness. What was the
[1882.2s] weakness? Withdrawal in moments of
[1885.1s] crisis. He was unavailable in times of
[1888.0s] need. And the Bible tells us
[1890.5s] so. When David was struggling and he
[1893.8s] needed a hand in battle, all the other
[1896.4s] brothers came. And the Bible in 1
[1898.9s] Coronicles 27 says, "A share and his
[1902.8s] tribe missed out." Imagine at such a
[1905.7s] time when you needed a hand from a
[1907.4s] brother. The enemies are right in front
[1909.6s] of your of your house. Judah decides to
[1913.4s] come. You know, Zebulun decides to come.
[1915.8s] Levy and Simeon decide to come, but
[1919.2s] says, "Please, can you put off your
[1921.9s] phone? When they come, tell them I went
[1924.1s] out." And there he went missing until
[1927.7s] the war was over. And now David is
[1930.3s] putting, you know, a list of
[1931.5s] congratulatory messages and he misses
[1933.9s] the name of a sher, anyone from his
[1935.8s] tribe. They had a weakness of
[1938.1s] withdrawing themselves in moments of
[1940.0s] crisis and availability in times when
[1942.5s] they were needed. Could that also be
[1945.2s] you? We are with you here for birthday.
[1948.2s] When I'm doing a serious road trip and
[1950.1s] the fuel is mine, you are also there.
[1952.4s] when we are going for football and you
[1954.5s] see you know the winning side is mine
[1956.4s] you are also there but at that moment
[1958.7s] when depression is knocking at my door I
[1961.6s] need a friend to speak to you go mute
[1964.2s] you are offline WhatsApp hook tik tok
[1966.6s] you're not there your phone cannot go
[1969.6s] through you have a
[1971.8s] lookalike but by god's grace it is say
[1975.1s] that even the name of ashare is engraved
[1977.9s] in the gates of the celestial city he
[1980.2s] overcame hallelujah you who can
[1982.9s] overcome. We think about Simeon and
[1985.5s] Levy. Simeon and Levy are also very
[1988.1s] interesting brothers. You know the Bible
[1990.7s] actually among all the 12 brothers,
[1992.5s] these ones have a name. They are called
[1995.0s] the instruments of cruelty. Genesis
[1998.2s] 49:5. This is what their
[2001.0s] father gave them. You know when you look
[2003.3s] at your
[2004.2s] children and this we know at times you
[2008.1s] look at the name I gave to my son and
[2010.1s] wonder oh God will this name ever
[2012.5s] materialize I have called my son David
[2015.3s] the king of Israel but there's nothing
[2018.2s] about him that can make him anywhere
[2020.4s] close to even becoming a leader not only
[2023.1s] of himself these ones were given a name
[2026.4s] instruments of cruelty I want you to
[2029.0s] take your mind back when their only
[2030.7s] sister Dina was raped In Genesis 34,
[2033.4s] what Levy and Simeon did and you know
[2036.5s] they used to do it as a pair. We are
[2038.8s] told they went in, they came in and you
[2041.4s] know devised some deception to the
[2043.4s] Sheckchammites. They you know
[2045.1s] circumcised them and when the wound was
[2047.5s] at its climax the third day they came
[2050.2s] now walking with
[2051.7s] machetes and they ensured no man in the
[2055.0s] village was alive to a level that their
[2058.2s] own father had to disappear from where
[2060.7s] they used to live. For sure these guys
[2063.4s] were not anything good. These are the
[2065.9s] people you don't need in your phone
[2068.7s] book. It is interesting to note that
[2071.2s] Levy even if he is associated also with
[2073.4s] Simeon the Lord was happy about him one
[2076.5s] time. You know when he stood firm in the
[2079.8s] matter of the golden calf God was happy
[2082.5s] and he said Levy because of what you've
[2084.7s] done to avoid people worshiping idols I
[2087.2s] will reward you with something good.
[2088.7s] What will it be? I'll reward you with
[2090.6s] the office of the priesthood. But we are
[2093.9s] told that aside, he had harbored a deep
[2097.0s] tendency for revenge. Weaknesses that
[2100.0s] can make you never to get to heaven.
[2102.2s] There are people here, especially on
[2103.8s] this side, the ladies I know. He is
[2106.4s] married to the AMM leader. I wish I knew
[2108.7s] the wife to Maji. And just ask her
[2111.0s] oneonone. Do you remember that mistake
[2113.5s] elder did to you 23 4 months and 3 days
[2119.0s] ago? 23 years. He's telling him I
[2124.8s] remember we were in our third year in
[2127.2s] the University of Nairobi. It was just
[2129.2s] outside there. You know where the
[2130.4s] monument is 1993
[2134.3s] December. I will never forgive you for
[2138.5s] that. Those kind of people don't think
[2142.1s] you are alone. Levy is one of
[2144.6s] you. Levy is one of you. But no matter
[2147.8s] how once he was and Simeon, they are
[2150.6s] recorded in the name of the overcomers.
[2152.6s] Hallelujah. You too can overcome. We
[2154.9s] think about Zebulun. And maybe this will
[2156.4s] be the last so that I don't do so much
[2158.8s] time with background. There's some
[2160.3s] message I want you to get about why Dan
[2162.6s] was lost. I'm only bringing or making a
[2165.0s] case.
[2166.7s] Zebulun again on the other hand he is
[2169.2s] also a good man. He is called you know
[2173.0s] he had the strength of valor. You know
[2175.5s] what is valor that is courage great
[2178.4s] courage in face of danger and especially
[2181.3s] when it comes to battle. And for sure
[2183.6s] that is what uh Zebulun did when the
[2188.6s] king of that time he was called u judge
[2192.5s] deborah was fighting the canonites. His
[2196.6s] own commander of the army is on one side
[2199.0s] Barack and the Canonites king have
[2201.5s] brought also a commander on this side
[2203.4s] called
[2204.4s] Ceera. Many of the tribes of Israel
[2207.6s] feared that I do not have the manpower
[2210.4s] that is equal to fight the Canaanites.
[2212.5s] No, but you know what Zebulun said?
[2214.7s] Where my sons and my daughters just rise
[2217.8s] up with the Lord in us. We will help
[2221.0s] Barak to fight the Canaanites. And they
[2223.8s] came up so tightly that there was no
[2226.4s] space for Ceera to even send a single a
[2229.4s] single arrow. These were the men we hear
[2232.3s] in scripture. When Gideon was fighting
[2235.0s] the Medidianites, the guys of Zebulun
[2238.1s] stood up, the men of valor, great
[2239.9s] courage in times of uh you know danger.
[2244.2s] When David was fighting King Saul after
[2247.7s] he was coronated as
[2249.5s] king, it is the Zebulunians, if that is
[2252.5s] English, who came for his hand. But we
[2255.2s] are told no matter how good that was,
[2257.1s] that was the face we knew. They also had
[2259.8s] a weakness. And this is a weakness of
[2261.4s] the people of new life. I know you many
[2264.2s] of
[2265.2s] you. Can I tell you which is that
[2267.4s] weakness? They were itinerate wanderers.
[2271.4s] What
[2272.8s] amando itinerate
[2275.8s] wanderers? When I came to Nairobi, my
[2278.2s] name is Maja. I settled in Guay 44.
[2281.9s] Before the end of that year, I had gone
[2283.5s] to Roy And when the year was now
[2287.0s] fully ending in December, I found myself
[2288.8s] in Kawangare, three cities in Nairobi
[2291.4s] within a year. And before I knew it, I
[2294.4s] came to
[2298.5s] Karen. My friend, I used 3 hours to come
[2301.4s] here in the morning. And I tell you
[2303.2s] before this year ends, I will also move
[2305.6s] to another neighborhood. Eight
[2307.3s] neighborhoods in 2 years. You are not
[2309.8s] alone. If you are here, don't worry. You
[2312.0s] are just like pastors. Our books are
[2314.6s] always in boxes because we move around
[2316.6s] every minute. We have a brother here
[2319.8s] called
[2321.4s] Zebulun. Actually, Moses himself uses
[2324.1s] that word in Deuteronomy 33:18, the
[2326.8s] tribe of the going out people. their
[2329.4s] work itinerate wonderings but we are
[2332.1s] told no matter what they
[2335.6s] did they overcame that weakness because
[2338.6s] it happened the work of the Lord
[2340.6s] interdependence factor but they are
[2343.4s] recorded in the role of the overcomers
[2345.8s] regardless of these traits my brothers
[2347.8s] and sisters they were redeemed
[2349.9s] hallelujah Judah Asher Simeon Levy and
[2353.8s] Zebulun with their character frailties
[2356.7s] when eternity curtains are flipped
[2359.4s] They will all be there. Hallelujah. This
[2362.6s] only attests to the unfathomable
[2364.4s] compassion of our long-suffering God.
[2367.0s] And by the way, let me tell you, it is
[2370.0s] good to note even this is not a thought
[2371.7s] about this message that each of the
[2374.2s] redeemed on earth that is you and me who
[2377.4s] shall enter the celestial city of heaven
[2381.0s] will enter there through the gate that
[2383.0s] bears the name of the patriarch among
[2385.0s] this list who closely resembles you. So
[2389.0s] ask the AMA member only the men. Please
[2391.1s] ladies don't ask anyone. Let the men ask
[2393.5s] the one sitting next to you, which gate
[2396.5s] do you think you will enter through?
[2397.8s] That one can tell you what they are
[2399.2s] struggling with. And because of that, I
[2400.8s] know not many will say, my gate is
[2402.5s] Judah, last of the flesh. They will not
[2405.4s] accept. They will say, you know me, I'm
[2407.5s] a man who is courage in terms of battle.
[2414.1s] Uhhuh. I don't know whether your gate
[2416.1s] will be for
[2418.0s] Zebulun. I don't know whether your gate
[2420.1s] will be for Simeon and Levy. People of
[2422.8s] deception. No h
[2425.8s] revenge. I don't know whether you'll be
[2428.2s] for a you
[2430.6s] know you are no longer there. I don't
[2433.0s] know whether you'll be for Simeon. I
[2434.6s] don't know. For me I pray whichever gate
[2437.3s] I am in I may be found in there. Amen.
[2440.6s] And I pray it is also one message for
[2443.7s] you. And now the very climax. Why
[2448.2s] then did Dan get lost? Why was he
[2453.2s] omitted? Why is it that he failed the
[2455.9s] test of showing himself a man like a
[2458.7s] patriarch who he was and find his name
[2461.4s] in the sealed people of God? In
[2463.1s] Revelation 7, the Bible uses only one
[2466.1s] word, idolatry.
[2470.3s] In Judges, in Judges 18, it was the
[2473.7s] tribe of Dan that started from all the
[2477.6s] 12 to turn its people away to
[2481.6s] idolatry. When they moved from where
[2483.7s] they were, they went to Lish. They
[2485.5s] conquered that city. Scripture tells us
[2487.8s] that they even changed all the
[2489.3s] billboards of the city. They said, "This
[2491.4s] city from today will never be called
[2493.0s] Lish. It will be called after our
[2495.1s] patriarch, our own our forefather Dan."
[2497.6s] And so today in the Bible it's called
[2499.3s] the city of Dan. But what is known about
[2501.4s] the city of Dan under the reigns of the
[2503.4s] likes of King Rahobam. They actually
[2506.2s] went
[2507.2s] ahead to have a place of worship that
[2510.2s] competed with the real legitimate
[2512.2s] worship in Jerusalem. Imagine we are now
[2515.4s] worshiping here in New Life and then a
[2518.1s] few of us stand and say no hookah. They
[2521.8s] go and you know prepare an alternative
[2524.6s] place of worship elsewhere. And you see
[2527.1s] what they put there are golden calves.
[2529.4s] They tell them no you don't have to go
[2531.0s] to new life to worship Jehovah the
[2533.2s] creator of heaven and earth who will
[2534.9s] make a golden calf for you here when you
[2536.8s] go there just you know kneel down
[2538.7s] worship that cup that is your god. They
[2541.4s] began to compete for worship with god
[2545.9s] something that the lord doesn't
[2548.4s] tolerate. Now it may look funny for you
[2551.2s] that you see idolatry. This is the same
[2554.1s] thing people have done everywhere and
[2555.5s] they are forgiven. Why God you are
[2557.1s] unfair. Let me unpack for you what
[2559.8s] idolatry is for you to know that for
[2561.6s] sure in his own judgment God was right
[2564.6s] to have his name scrubbed from the list
[2566.3s] of overcomers. And as I tell you this,
[2568.9s] think about it yourself. Now scripture
[2571.8s] today, the Bible, God's word speaks
[2573.6s] about sins that are less likely to
[2576.5s] release a sinner to repentance. sins
[2580.3s] that are you are involved probably in
[2582.4s] gossip. You even break the fourth
[2584.6s] commandment. You know the epitom of all
[2586.8s] the 10 that you can quickly repent and
[2589.8s] come back. But we have a record of sins.
[2592.4s] The Bible says they are less likely to
[2595.4s] release the sinner to repentance. And
[2597.4s] one of them actually I would say the
[2598.9s] father and mother and uncle of all of
[2601.0s] them is idolatry.
[2603.1s] Why? Because idolatry touches on the
[2606.2s] Godfirst principle of the first
[2609.0s] commandment. Now camera man allow me
[2611.2s] just to walk a little bit front and ask
[2615.0s] if I was to give you today an exam where
[2619.0s] do we find the first commandment and how
[2621.8s] does it start? I can bet 95% will
[2625.9s] fail. They will tell me today the first
[2628.6s] commandment starts. Let's go together.
[2631.2s] You shall have no other gods besides me.
[2634.2s] And that is not true. The Lord in the
[2636.6s] holy decalogue doesn't start with what
[2639.0s] we ought to do. No, he starts with what
[2641.8s] he has done for me. So you go back one
[2644.9s] verse behind in verse two of Exodus 20.
[2647.4s] It is says, I am the Lord your God who
[2650.3s] took away who who did
[2652.9s] what? Took you out from the land of
[2656.4s] bondage. So have no other gods before
[2659.2s] me. In that verse two alone, we find a
[2662.0s] summary of that singular epic event
[2665.0s] where they I mean the Israelites were
[2667.6s] gotten out of the land of
[2670.1s] bondage. They were to pick a lamp. They
[2673.3s] were to keep it in their houses and then
[2674.8s] on the day 10, 11, 12, they were to keep
[2677.1s] it. Then on the 14th, they were to
[2679.0s] slaughter it and have that blood, you
[2680.9s] know, on the doorpost. That lamp was a
[2684.5s] symbol of Jesus who in centuries to come
[2687.4s] was to become you know the
[2689.3s] atoning
[2690.9s] Passover of all the righteous. It is the
[2694.3s] same lamb that John when he saw in John
[2696.8s] 1:29 he says look behold the lamb of God
[2700.3s] that takes away what sins of the world.
[2702.8s] That lamb that was you know whose blood
[2705.3s] was shed in Egypt was you know a type of
[2708.5s] Christ. It was to be a symbol of what
[2710.7s] would happen in the years to
[2713.0s] come. It was typifying
[2717.1s] Jesus. You see the good thing with it is
[2720.9s] both the Israelites camp and the
[2722.5s] Egyptians come there was death. While
[2724.8s] the firstborns of the Egyptians were
[2726.6s] dying
[2727.4s] themselves. Here we had a lamp that was
[2731.0s] dying on behalf of the life of the
[2734.3s] firstborn in the Hebrews camp. And that
[2737.4s] lamp was Jesus. And so if we believe so
[2740.3s] that Jesus is that Passover lamp, it
[2742.7s] means verse two is not for them. It is
[2744.8s] also for us. It's like Jesus is saying,
[2746.7s] remember I took my own blood to assure
[2750.2s] your salvation. Today you are an
[2752.5s] overcomer. And therefore with that which
[2755.3s] I have done for you, I gave out my life.
[2757.5s] Now do this. Start walking in the near
[2760.9s] newness of life. Love God supremely in
[2763.6s] the first four commandments and love
[2765.4s] your neighbor as yourself in the other
[2767.6s] six commandments. He begins with what he
[2770.6s] has done for us, not what he he tells us
[2773.7s] to do. Praise the Lord. That is the
[2776.5s] commandment, the principle that Dan now
[2779.0s] is interfering with. That is the
[2780.9s] principle that Dan is saying. It doesn't
[2783.4s] matter. I will still have an alternative
[2785.7s] place of worship. And God who does not
[2788.3s] tolerate anything of that kind, he comes
[2790.9s] on board. And you see my friends in this
[2793.5s] Godfast
[2794.8s] principle it is an
[2797.2s] injunction that the Lord has to preserve
[2801.0s] a particular space that is in every of
[2804.1s] our hearts
[2805.4s] here. Let me tell you
[2808.3s] this that in every of us who are seated
[2811.6s] here there is a space that God deems his
[2815.7s] in your heart. that place should not
[2818.0s] have any other thing, any other someone
[2820.9s] if that's
[2822.0s] English. And you see what the Lord
[2824.8s] does, he gives us this commandment as an
[2827.5s] injunction to preserve that space. In
[2830.5s] this commandment, he communicated his
[2832.9s] displeasure not only against worship of
[2835.8s] sculptured idols, not only as a reminder
[2838.6s] of giving God the first place in our
[2840.8s] lives, but also as a command that there
[2843.4s] will be absolutely no God sharing in our
[2846.9s] lives. Did you hear that? No God
[2850.1s] sharing. You know what that that means?
[2852.5s] That the Lord does not want to be our
[2855.0s] highest God, the supreme God. No, he
[2858.2s] doesn't need to be so. Yes, he is the
[2860.1s] supreme because there are other gods
[2861.8s] here of money of other things. He can be
[2864.8s] known. So, but to you as an individual,
[2867.4s] he should never be a supreme or the
[2869.5s] highest god. Highest god means I have 20
[2872.3s] of them. I have ranked them in order of
[2874.7s] priority and at the very first it is
[2877.0s] him. He is jealous of that. He says I do
[2879.8s] not want to be your highest god. All I
[2881.7s] need is to be your only god. Praise the
[2883.9s] lord. Not highest but only. And this is
[2887.5s] what now Dan was playing around
[2889.8s] with. So if I was to ask you seated
[2892.6s] there as a man, what is that that has
[2895.0s] taken the place of God in your life? If
[2897.3s] there is anything you have participated
[2899.4s] in idolatry, the sin that made done to
[2902.2s] be excluded in the role of overcomers
[2904.4s] and don't think that your fate is any
[2906.6s] better. It is now I have to reconsider
[2908.7s] my
[2910.0s] life. Let me give you a few quotes and
[2912.7s] we end there. Ellen White in manuscript
[2916.1s] number 126 of 1901 says, "Anything that
[2920.2s] is made the subject of undue thought and
[2923.0s] admiration absorbing the mind is a God
[2926.5s] chosen before the Lord." End of quote.
[2929.4s] Is there anything as men who are here
[2931.8s] that you know is subject of our undue
[2934.0s] thought and admiration? Is there
[2936.0s] something in our lives that absorbs the
[2938.0s] mind that becomes a God chosen before
[2940.0s] the Lord? Some of us we have packed you
[2942.6s] know the newest 2025 Subaru
[2945.7s] Forester even you know how it is
[2948.5s] producing the sound. You can tell my
[2953.9s] friend if someone does a mistake of even
[2957.0s] you know doing to scratch only half a
[2960.9s] cime of that car I cannot take it. You
[2963.8s] will go with it home bring it back
[2965.8s] tomorrow when it is the same way I
[2967.3s] brought it. It tells you it takes the
[2970.1s] value even more than the even the wife
[2972.1s] cannot even ride in
[2978.1s] it. Hallelujah. If it has taken such a
[2983.2s] slot, it becomes the subject of undue
[2986.1s] thought and admiration absorbing my
[2988.6s] mind. It becomes a God chosen before the
[2990.9s] heavenly father who should have that
[2992.6s] place the first place in my life.
[2994.4s] Hallelujah. She goes on anything that
[2997.1s] diverts the mind from God assumes the
[2999.7s] form of an idol. And that is why there's
[3001.9s] very little power in the church of God
[3005.9s] today.
[3008.0s] Idolatry is trading the space that
[3010.8s] rightfully belongs to
[3014.5s] God. Is it soccer?
[3018.3s] I thank God today by the way that it is
[3021.7s] not
[3022.8s] a soccer season World Cup. Some people
[3026.2s] will just be on on the
[3031.2s] please your game your game you know like
[3033.6s] last World Cup when Kenya was playing
[3036.8s] with Germany. You remember that time we
[3038.9s] had just you know won Spain and then
[3040.6s] Kenya versus Germany. You remember that
[3042.2s] time? Why are you laughing? Because you
[3044.3s] know Kenya cannot get there. If we are
[3046.3s] defeated by even Uganda,
[3048.6s] please it is because the Adventist have
[3051.1s] refused to take up their slots in that
[3053.5s] you know uh
[3056.4s] Harambeistas that time our mind will be
[3059.6s] elsewhere leaving the worship of
[3061.3s] Jehovah. Quickly listen to this. Parts
[3063.8s] and prophets page
[3065.7s] 305. Jehovah the eternal self-existent
[3070.0s] uncreated one himself the source and
[3072.7s] sustainer of everyone is the lord
[3075.0s] entitled to supreme reverence and
[3077.0s] worship. Man is forbidden to give to any
[3080.0s] other object the first place in his
[3082.2s] affections or his service. And then very
[3084.6s] serious listen to this. Whatever we
[3087.2s] cherish that tends to lessen our love
[3090.2s] for God or interfere with the service
[3093.0s] due to him of that we make a God. End of
[3096.4s] quote. Let me repeat that last part.
[3099.4s] Anything you and I who are here we
[3101.4s] cherish that can lessen your love for
[3104.2s] God and interfere with the service due
[3107.1s] to him like what you are doing here
[3108.6s] today that becomes an idol. Me and Dan
[3112.4s] we are
[3113.8s] equal. For me this disturbs me
[3116.5s] interfering with the service due to him.
[3119.0s] Today you and I have even refused to
[3121.6s] take up roles in God's church. You are
[3124.2s] the first elder like my elder
[3135.6s] that role. Just allow me to be a
[3138.3s] bystander. Imagine you can also put
[3140.9s] yourself in this statement. That which I
[3143.5s] cherish to a level that it interferes
[3146.5s] with the service due to my Jehovah has
[3149.3s] become an idol. That excuse I give
[3152.3s] because of the blessings he has shared
[3154.2s] with me of a good job. Then I say I
[3156.9s] cannot serve you. That in
[3159.6s] itself becomes an idol. Some of us used
[3163.0s] to come to church very early when we
[3164.5s] were youths when we got kamushiki here I
[3167.8s] began now at 9:30 when we got married
[3170.5s] because they know the first year you
[3172.2s] know is honeymoon I was coming when the
[3174.2s] lesson is ending when the lord blessed
[3176.0s] us with twins two beautiful daughters
[3179.1s] one is called Jane and the other one is
[3181.0s] John you know those names I now started
[3184.9s] coming one Sabbath in a month when I get
[3187.4s] the fifth born I'm coming I'm no longer
[3190.9s] coming I'm telling my wife, you go and
[3192.9s] represent me. Is it that the blessings
[3195.6s] of Jehovah have become a barrier to me
[3197.9s] serving him? That becomes a god. And so
[3200.5s] no one should be talking about Dan why
[3202.8s] he was excluded. We too can fall into
[3205.3s] such a similar place. He says he does
[3208.2s] not entertain god sharing. Absolutely
[3211.2s] no. I desire to be given first place in
[3214.9s] your life. Today we have so busy
[3217.0s] schedules that at times you have to
[3219.3s] spend the Sabbath at home resting
[3221.2s] because your eyes cannot even open. How
[3223.4s] you are waking up at 4:00 a.m. and
[3225.0s] sleeping at 1. 4 a.m. and sleeping at 1.
[3227.5s] Monday to Friday on Sabbath it's a free
[3233.2s] day. My friend that can be a good
[3236.3s] reason but if you are staying at home
[3239.3s] you're missing the communion with the
[3241.0s] Lord the fellowship with his people.
[3243.1s] that also becomes a god in your life. To
[3246.5s] others, we are even too busy to maintain
[3249.3s] a meaningful time for prayer, for Bible
[3251.6s] study, for family worship. Let me tell
[3254.0s] you, if anything comes in between you
[3256.2s] and your God, that has become an idol.
[3258.6s] And lastly, but not least, my
[3261.2s] brothers, we read, "Our creator demands
[3264.9s] our supreme devotion, our first
[3267.1s] allegence."
[3270.0s] Today many have created idols for
[3274.2s] themselves. Business no to some their
[3277.0s] lands, others their houses, others their
[3279.8s] merchandise. All these are their idols.
[3282.5s] And then Ellen White you know comes
[3283.9s] powerfully and says businesses business
[3287.8s] enterprises are prosecuted with zeal and
[3290.7s] energy while the service of God is made
[3293.9s] a secondary consideration. Family
[3296.8s] worship is neglected. Secret prayer is
[3299.8s] forgotten. These are
[3302.6s] idolattors. Do you see where we are?
[3305.6s] Some of us, our businesses are thriving
[3308.2s] with a degree of professionalism that
[3310.9s] the department I have been given to head
[3313.4s] in.
[3317.2s] But when you come to my company my
[3319.1s] friend even walking style changes how it
[3322.3s] looks from the outside you will know
[3324.4s] there is a leader in this particular
[3326.6s] company but that church where you
[3329.1s] worship you are still in a church that
[3333.4s] has an architectural design done in 1962
[3336.6s] and we've never seen the light of
[3339.6s] day. I don't know if somebody if you are
[3341.8s] getting me just raise your hand. Praise
[3343.4s] the Lord. The Bible says here for us
[3346.3s] that the Lord has blessed today your
[3349.4s] businesses they are prosecuted with zeal
[3352.5s] and energy while the service of Jehovah
[3355.4s] is made a secondary consideration. You
[3358.1s] cannot even show up for church board on
[3359.8s] time because you see I need to meet a
[3362.1s] client.
[3367.3s] [Music]
[3375.4s] Brothers, I will end
[3377.6s] there. And as I end there, I want you to
[3380.4s] touch your neighbor. Just tell them we
[3382.4s] are finished. We are doing a summary.
[3384.4s] Mr. K, I don't like you know to disturb
[3386.6s] people while sleeping in God's church
[3388.8s] because it's the house of their father.
[3390.8s] But when I'm ending, I at least make a
[3393.4s] summary. Please just touch her. I know
[3395.3s] she was very much dead. Tell her it is
[3397.7s] already time. But I need you to hear the
[3400.4s] very last
[3402.4s] words. Now what am I
[3404.8s] saying
[3407.1s] friends? Dan was a legitimate son of
[3410.5s] Jacob. He was present in all the
[3413.0s] spiritual milestones but only missed at
[3415.2s] the very tail end where it all mattered
[3418.0s] most. In his wisdom, God made a
[3420.6s] provision to balance his weaknesses with
[3422.6s] the strengths of his brothers. But it
[3424.6s] was never good enough for Dan. with all
[3427.5s] their you know inherent sinful
[3429.9s] tendencies
[3433.0s] Judah Reuben God Napali and all the
[3437.4s] brothers will be there. Hallelujah. But
[3440.7s] it is a sad reality that the name of Dan
[3443.7s] was found missing in the role of the
[3446.7s] sealed people of God in the role of the
[3449.3s] overcomers. He was crapped out. Why
[3452.5s] would he be eternally excluded? It was
[3455.0s] something we discuss here. the scene of
[3457.0s] idolatry that is trading God's space.
[3460.6s] Friends, he had this gentleman Dan had
[3463.4s] an opportunity of showing himself a man
[3466.0s] by preserving God's space but he failed.
[3469.6s] Let that fate not befall
[3471.6s] us. I have a few questions for you. Are
[3475.2s] we involved in the idolatry of God
[3477.5s] sharing in our lives? Has anything
[3480.3s] become the subject of undue thought
[3482.2s] admiration in our lives more than even
[3485.0s] God? When we get home, the children want
[3487.7s] to sleep. I'm there, you know, telling
[3489.6s] them no.
[3494.0s] When you see the advert for news
[3495.9s] beginning, you know, you are holding
[3497.8s] your remote, you call your family
[3500.9s] quickly in a very, you know, army like,
[3504.1s] you want them to pray while one of your
[3507.4s] eyes is open because I don't want the
[3509.7s] news to start. I need to see how the
[3511.6s] pope, you know, what happened, whether
[3513.4s] he is an
[3514.6s] African. And it has to be a prayer
[3517.0s] halfhazardly done for the ladies who
[3519.4s] love soap operas. When you see yours is
[3522.2s] now about to come, the children are
[3523.9s] brought in in a majestic way and one of
[3526.5s] them is assigned to pray because they
[3528.1s] will pray a short prayer. Hurry up, my
[3529.7s] friend. Just pray. Pray that you're
[3531.3s] going to sleep and they have to rush
[3533.4s] that prayer quickly so that when they
[3535.6s] leave now, you can watch those things
[3538.2s] that do not even have names that don't
[3540.2s] even make sense. Dominuendo
[3543.7s] estto very serious. Unless it is even
[3546.7s] translated to you. You never studied
[3549.0s] Latin, not even French, not even Kikuyu.
[3552.0s] You don't even know what it is saying,
[3553.4s] but you are
[3555.5s] there. The question is, have we
[3558.6s] cherished such to a level that they
[3561.0s] lessen our love for God or to interfere
[3563.5s] with the service that is due to
[3565.9s] Jehovah? Have we prosecuted our
[3568.4s] businesses with zeal and energy so big
[3571.1s] that the service of God is made a
[3572.9s] secondary consideration? Has my work
[3575.0s] schedule become a hindrance to me
[3577.4s] serving the
[3578.4s] Lord? Could we have become so busy that
[3581.7s] our family worship is neglected? That
[3584.1s] secret prayer is forgotten. That Bible
[3586.4s] study at home is only done when
[3588.3s] convenient. We even become leaders of
[3592.2s] church at study and I will only study on
[3594.7s] Friday night because tomorrow I'm
[3596.6s] supposed to teach. I cannot even study
[3598.6s] over the week. Has that become the case?
[3600.9s] And I will tell you my brothers if any
[3603.8s] of the above questions has an an
[3606.1s] affirmative answer to you then it is
[3608.6s] time you reconsidered your life my
[3610.3s] fellow member and any other ways here if
[3613.0s] there's any of those things that you say
[3615.5s] yes I
[3616.8s] think I have forgotten even time for
[3619.3s] family my wife and my children don't see
[3621.5s] me anymore as the priest protector you
[3624.2s] know and father of that home they no
[3625.6s] longer you are losing it because that
[3627.7s] family is your very first place of
[3629.5s] worship that family is your first church
[3631.5s] maja. It is not where we are here.
[3633.8s] Putting in serious suits like this one
[3635.4s] of mine. You know, this one is custom
[3637.4s] made from Afghanistan. It is not
[3640.6s] here. My priestly garments first begin
[3643.5s] at home. If I have no time for that
[3645.9s] home, let me also know that I've
[3647.8s] practiced the sin of
[3649.3s] Dan. We have this story for our example.
[3653.2s] We don't have to be eternally lost. We
[3655.9s] can overcome the sin that is less likely
[3659.0s] to release the sinner to repentance.
[3661.4s] God, my brothers, has created a space in
[3664.2s] you that he deems his. But as a loving
[3666.8s] God, he desires that we preserve it as
[3670.0s] his voluntarily and willingly. He
[3672.7s] desires that our exclusive devotion
[3675.0s] becomes his. He expects that we preserve
[3677.8s] his rightful place in our lives. Do you
[3679.8s] know which is that place? Him being
[3682.9s] first, him being last, and him being
[3686.6s] best in all we do.
[3715.5s] [Music]
[3722.8s] Pass the
[3724.0s] ball. Pass the ball.
[3729.1s] [Music]
[3746.1s] I care not for
[3747.6s] riches,
[3756.2s] older. We shall rise with this song.
[3760.2s] Lord, I care not for riches.
[3777.4s] But for
[3779.9s] [Music]
[3787.4s] you, I will make
[3790.4s] sure
[3792.0s] heaven. Heat. Heat.
[3794.6s] [Music]
[3806.2s] So tell me
[3808.8s] Jesus
[3810.7s] [Music]
[3812.8s] my is my
[3817.7s] name is my
[3822.6s] [Music]
[3827.4s] name in
[3829.8s] the mighty
[3835.0s] Is my name
[3839.7s] [Music]
[3847.5s] [Applause]
[3849.5s] [Music]
[3855.9s] written like the son of the sea? Yeah.
[3864.3s] [Music]
[3870.5s] Heat. Heat.
[3876.0s] [Music]
[3880.5s] Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat.
[3893.6s] is my
[3897.6s] name on
[3900.0s] [Music]
[3906.8s] [Applause]
[3919.2s] my
[3922.7s] [Music]
[3925.8s] Heat.
[3935.8s] Heat.
[3937.9s] Yeah.
[3941.0s] [Music]
[3947.9s] Heat. Yeah. Heat.
[3955.2s] [Music]
[3963.2s] Yes,
[3968.2s] my
[3972.7s] [Music]
[3977.8s] name
[3986.8s] is Jesus.
[3989.9s] One more
[3990.4s] [Music]
[3997.8s] [Applause]
[4001.5s] time in the world of my king.
[4010.1s] is my name
[4013.1s] [Applause]
[4014.8s] [Music]
[4019.2s] written. Thank you. Thank
[4022.4s] you. With that question lingering in our
[4028.8s] minds, as we
[4031.4s] honestly reflect on our
[4035.3s] lives, and as we look forward to the
[4039.2s] soon return of our Lord and
[4042.7s] Savior, who will not be asking for
[4045.3s] something
[4046.9s] small, but will be judging
[4051.7s] righteously as If we think about that
[4054.6s] and we ponder about the
[4057.6s] message, it is now
[4059.4s] [Music]
[4060.7s] time. I've been instructed by our
[4064.4s] speaker that all men in the
[4067.7s] room to take their time and
[4071.6s] reflect. And if you feel that you
[4075.6s] associate with the
[4078.4s] characters that have been expressed
[4082.4s] here that at some point though you've
[4086.3s] been in the group in the team but at
[4090.5s] some point in
[4092.1s] life you have stepped
[4094.9s] aside. This is the time that you need to
[4098.3s] step back and get your rightful place.
[4103.3s] And I am pleading and asking all men
[4107.2s] that if you feel that in one way or the
[4111.9s] other,
[4113.6s] you have not done what is expected of
[4117.3s] you to stand as a man.
[4121.2s] This is the time for you to step forward
[4124.1s] for a word of
[4126.7s] prayer such that by the time that the
[4131.5s] names will be
[4133.3s] read in that beautiful gate your name be
[4138.7s] written
[4139.6s] there. If you feel you need that special
[4144.2s] prayer kindly step
[4147.0s] forward. we've seen done. It is not a
[4150.9s] question of your background. It doesn't
[4153.7s] matter what you
[4155.2s] do. It is
[4157.6s] about what God is looking
[4160.5s] at with his watchful
[4163.2s] eyes, seeing how you've been operating
[4167.2s] even in God's
[4169.0s] church as Adventist
[4171.8s] man. And you
[4173.8s] find many a times they call upon men.
[4177.7s] You wonder whether you are a man or a
[4179.8s] woman. You guess whether you should also
[4182.8s] step forward. You get
[4185.6s] confused. This is the time that we need
[4188.7s] to come back to our
[4190.8s] God. Such a man is the one that need to
[4195.8s] come forward.
[4198.2s] I thank
[4199.8s] God that from what has been
[4204.1s] presented, you and I, we are still
[4209.8s] redeemable. God still has got space for
[4212.5s] us.
[4214.6s] We've seen the likes of
[4216.8s] Levy how their behavior was but still
[4221.6s] their
[4222.4s] names as John saw in
[4225.6s] Revelation their names are there in the
[4228.2s] gates and we'll go through those
[4231.2s] gates. So as a man of
[4234.3s] God has given you the breath of
[4237.5s] life. You know there are times that men
[4240.1s] are called
[4241.4s] upon. You are the first one to leave and
[4245.3s] the last to come. This is the time to
[4248.9s] make a change in your
[4251.6s] life. Thank you. Thank you my brothers.
[4254.3s] I'm also stepping together with you cuz
[4258.2s] I'm also a man who at some point
[4262.4s] feel
[4264.1s] confused not knowing that we need to
[4266.6s] take our space even in our families. The
[4271.0s] worship as a priest is it functional? Is
[4275.4s] it working? Or we do it hastily because
[4279.6s] we need to do other things. Anything
[4283.1s] that comes before God to you, then that
[4287.8s] one becomes your God. Thank you so
[4292.8s] much. Thank you so much.
[4296.2s] We serve a God who is a redeemer and
[4300.3s] there's no sin that he cannot
[4302.3s] forgive. We serve a God who looks at us
[4306.3s] as what we are right now, not what we
[4309.4s] used to be or what we think we ought to
[4313.2s] be or we are going to be. Is God who is
[4317.5s] there for us this day. Shall we pray?
[4322.9s] Loving
[4324.9s] Father, we come before you this holy
[4328.9s] Sabbath with our hearts full of
[4332.8s] thanksgiving. Because one thing we have
[4335.1s] learned from you is that your hands are
[4338.4s] always stretched
[4340.0s] out to bring us back home. that no child
[4344.5s] of yours who has ever strayed away
[4348.6s] decides to come back that you will all
[4351.7s] you will forsake. For that reason Lord
[4354.6s] we just want to thank you because of
[4356.1s] your love that is so deep so white that
[4359.9s] covers all of us that forgives all our
[4363.8s] sins that my father we ask and we plead
[4367.9s] that may you forgive us.
[4370.7s] We have stepped in front here because as
[4373.8s] men, as priests in our homes, we've seen
[4377.5s] where we have failed you. We've seen,
[4379.8s] Lord, where we have wronged even our
[4381.5s] families. We have seen, Lord, that we
[4383.8s] have not stood in our rightful places to
[4387.7s] today. Lord, this afternoon, we come
[4391.1s] pleading with you. May you forgive us
[4394.2s] and give us a new lease of life, a new
[4398.2s] start with you. that my father our homes
[4401.6s] may be turned into small heavens that
[4404.6s] our homes may be homes of peace. We have
[4407.4s] been told that as men we have been
[4409.8s] called to provide in one way or the
[4412.6s] other we have failed even our own
[4415.0s] families that we have not provided.
[4417.7s] Almighty father may you forgive us and
[4420.3s] help us that from now going forward we
[4423.8s] may do that which is allocated unto us.
[4429.0s] We want to thank you Almighty God
[4430.6s] because as men we have failed even your
[4433.5s] church when we are called upon to stand
[4436.6s] and be strong. As men we have shown that
[4440.8s] spirit of cowardice. We have always
[4444.0s] drawn back. But today my father we are
[4447.0s] praying that may you hold our hands that
[4449.8s] when called upon we may stand strong for
[4453.0s] you. we may defend the faith which we
[4456.7s] profess that we are children of God.
[4460.6s] Lord, I pray for our children. I pray
[4463.7s] for our wives. I pray for our mommies
[4466.9s] that my father may they through us see
[4471.0s] you see your love and receive your
[4473.8s] provision.
[4475.3s] We want to thank you Lord for your man's
[4476.8s] servant whom you have used and we want
[4479.5s] to thank you for this church that
[4481.4s] dedicated this Sabbath to be Sabbath of
[4484.2s] men. But all of us Lord we are
[4487.3s] benefited. We thank you that my father
[4490.4s] when you call for people to be counted
[4493.2s] may we stand to be counted as your
[4496.0s] children. Bless this church Lord. Bless
[4499.2s] this field. Bless this division. Bless
[4502.3s] this conference that all of us Lord may
[4505.7s] stand for you. Our mommies who are here,
[4508.9s] our daughters who are here with us and
[4511.2s] our young sons Lord God we commit them
[4514.5s] to you that as a church may we may walk
[4517.1s] forward being led by your spirit in the
[4520.6s] right direction. May your grace be
[4523.4s] sufficient now and forever. In Jesus
[4526.6s] name I pray. Amen.
[4532.9s] [Music]