Title: Sabbath Morning Sermon || Do it again, Lord! || Pr. Godswill T.K Mensah
Video ID: du5_jxdjSuo
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=du5_jxdjSuo
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
[Music] Let's bow our heads and let us pray. Father in heaven, we pray this morning in the powerful name of Jesus. We pray for your presence. We pray for an anointing. We pray for the Holy Spirit. We pray for revival. We pray for power. We pray for God's presence. We pray for healing. We pray for redemption. We pray for presence. Now any power, any throne, any principality, any demonic presence in this place, may there be silence. May the power of God hover around this place. Today we pray for God's presence in a very unusual way. We pray for power in this sanctuary. We pray that anything that is an obstacle to the proclamation of the gospel, may the power of God contend against them. We pray for any distraction. We pray for any spirit that will steal our alertness so that we can be redeemed. Spirit of God, you promise you will be in this place. This is the hour. This is the moment now. Not I, but Christ beed love and exalted. Not I, but Christ. Be seen, be known, and be heard. Not I, but Christ in every look and action. not I but Christ in every thought and word in Jesus name. Amen. I on behalf of the leadership of your church uh welcome you to this service. I want to personally thank the pastor or the pastors and the PCM committee and the entire church family for the privilege accorded me to join you here for the past one week and a special thanks goes to uh engineer operry and Maxwell they have worked tirelessly and I know it's been a long time um for this to happen it's a privilege to join you before I also go into God's word I bring special greetings from my family my wife and my daughter they send a special regard and they want me to extend their love to you so that I have done and have fulfilled righteousness. Our subject for today is do it again Lord. Do it again Lord. I want to give a little disclaimer. We are going to preach, we will sing, we will pray. We may do a little over one hour. Just a disclaimer. So the time is 11:56. And since you decided to be away from the PCM week throughout the week, I have arrested you today and I will not let you go scot-free. as I always do. It was Jesus himself who said, "If you continue in my words, then you are my disciples indeed and you shall know the truth and the truth shall set you free. If the son set you free, you will be free indeed." Let someone in this auditorium say an amen. Amen. No, that is a weak one. Let someone say an amen. Amen. I can't take this yet. Let someone say an amen. Amen. I can manage this. I make to you four promises. Promise number one is the Bible shall be the bedrock of our study. And the reason is the Bible means what it says and says just what it means. Promise number two, you are going to be enlightened irrespective of who you are. Promise number three, you are going to be challenged to make the most important decision of your life. And promise number four, our lives, your life and mine will never be the same. I want to welcome the entire New Life family to a unique solution to a challenge the general conference has reiterated. I don't know if you are aware less than 75% in fact only 25% to 30% of seventh day Adventist have daily morning devotion. Technically less than just about 25 to 30% make time for morning devotion every day. So when we did the 10 days program titled back to the altar in 2010 uh 2023 we started a daily morning devotion we call it's on your screen called uplift your morning. So every morning your time in Kenya 8:00 a.m. 30 minutes we take a Bible passage and we make a meeting and we pray about 32 countries gather every morning including Saturday mornings 8:00 to 8:30. So I personally want to extend invitation. Anybody in search of an authentic devotional life, I ask and invite you to join us at uplift your morning every single day. For example, this month ending on Monday, our theme is relent. When God softens what life hardens, it is a daily. I encourage you personally as I lead it. I am being blessed and I know you are going to be blessed as well. Lastly, before we open the Bible, I bring you greetings also from our ministry. We call it SCAM center for outreach, mentorship and empowerment. Our entire crew asked me also to send a special greetings. Throughout this week, we have been attempting to deal with the theme called charge commissioned. And for the past seven days, today is the eighth day, I have led by the grace of God series of presentations. Few of you joined in the course of the week. Day number one, we are making a case for campus ministries. Let me give some brief insight. On Sabbath I told you we are losing our young people. Every 10 SDAs that go to university after 4 years 45% will not return almost five they leave the church. Two our professionals who are usually graduate from the university we are losing them. how 65% of Adventist professionals cannot tell exactly the reason they are 7th day Adventists. So there is a danger now. The best brains of Kenya right now they are in the universities. In the next 25 to 30 years the captains of industries the president of Kenya chances are that currently he or she is in the university. We have done a lot of crusades and uh campaigns in the villages. The world church is saying we ought to focus on campus. Campus ministries comes with some benefit. Let me just give two or three. If you are looking for the intelligential, the people who have deep pocket, who can argue, defend, protect the doctrines of our church and harness power for Jesus to come. It is the prof the the the university student currently in Africa only 20% of Africans have access to tertiary education. So the charismatic pentecostals they have taken the campus as their bread basket. You win them we are not able to win the top class in society. Also in the university we love our local churches more than missions in the university. So this day the world church is rallying everybody. We need to think strategically. We need to think intentionally. If you want your church to be built in 5 years, you need university student who become professionals. These are the leaders of the world. So we can't afford new life. It's only your church and few on the continent who held one week to remember campus ministries. I want you to say an amen to yourself. Amen. That's a week one. I want you to say an amen to yourself. Amen. Your church has done well to use a full week to emphasize on campus ministries. So the church leaders, the church board members, if you are thinking what can we do to help the global church, the church in the East African bell and around the world, invest at campus ministries. So on day number one, I talk about the forgotten battle why campus ministries hold the future of the church. You can check it online. Day number two, we look at blueprints for a movement, heaven's vision for campus ministry. Day number three, we looked at lost in plain sight. Why discipleship is the only defense. Day number four, we studied on from funds to fellow followers, the cost of disciplehip. And day number five and day number six, we did part one and two of invading the intellectual jungle, turning secular campuses into spiritual lunch. And yesterday in the evening we look at where nations are born, the secret assignment of campus ministries. And for this moment, we title it do it again Lord. Our scripture text is Acts 1 verse 8. The Bible says, "But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses to me in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth." From this verse we carved a theme for the week called called charge commission. Called means you shall be witnesses to me. God has called us. Then we said we are charged. You shall receive the power. And then we have been commissioned to go to the ends of the earth. But I have a bad news for us this morning. The bad news is there is no power. There are two difficulties facing the SDA church. One of them is what I will talk about this afternoon. Uh this right now in the afternoon I will talk about the second one. The first one is a lack of the Holy Spirit. The second one is we are poor people. Period. Two problems. Let me say it one more time. two main difficulties facing the SDA church worldwide. One, a lack of the Holy Spirit which I will address now and in the afternoon. We are poor people. Now whereas there is a promise of power, the church has no power. Whereas there is a promise of the efficacy of power, the church has no power. And by extension the universities where we are to work there is no power. Our young people are growing. They don't know even how to interface with the Holy Spirit. They know how to sing Father Abraham. They know how to do the ay the fly flying marines. They know all the things. Our young people have not received the Holy Spirit. Many people in the 7th day Adventist church have been baptized by immersion but they have not been baptized by the Holy Spirit. And it is for this reason I'm contending the need on the universities is the modern campus needs an ancient fire. Is there a promise of fire or power? Certainly. But why is it that God has promised power and our elders don't have the power? Our pastors don't have the power. We are going to St. Louis. Could it be we will gather again with a lot of millions of dollars, but the absence of the Holy Spirit? The Bible says, "For thine is the kingdom and the power, yet there is no power." Matthew 10:1. And when he had called unto him, his 12 disciples, he gave them power. John 1 verse number 12. But as many as received him, to them gave he power. Why is there a promise of power but we have not seen the power? 2 Timothy chapter 1:7 for God have not given us the spirit of fear but of power. There is a promise of power but our church your church and mine there is no power. When I say there is no power it's not the buildings. Our church members are destitute of power. Our church leaders are destitute of power. Our young people are destitute of power. Behold, I give unto you power. Where is the power? Ephesians 6:10. Be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. When was the last time you felt a move of the power of the Holy Spirit? It's more or less theoretical. We read about it. We hear sermons about it. When was the last time you felt a presence, an anointing of the Holy Spirit in your life, in your home, at your place of work? When was the last time I repeat again, there is a destitute of power that the power of Christ may rest upon me? Paul says, ladies and gentlemen, for the kingdom of God, it's not in word. We talk too much in this church, but we lack power. We debate a lot in our church, but we lack power. We don't like to be told, we can tell other churches, they are the mark of the beast. They are lost. But the 7th day Adventist church doesn't like to be told the truth. I stand in this place just before the general conference session and declare through God's word. The greatest need of our church is not who become the general conference president, who become the pastor, who become the union director, who become the division president. Our greatest need is the Holy Spirit. Will somebody not say an amen out there? This is our greatest need. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God. So there has been instances from Genesis to Revelation of the manifestation of the power of God. But the difficulty is we have not yet experience it. our subject for this morning. Do it again. Lord, hear me. In case you forget the message, this what I'm attempting to say. We do not need another committee. We do not need another con another campaign. We need another consecration. God's answer to a tired. God's answer to a compromise. God's answer to an entertainment-driven church is not better programs, it's Pentecost. The church needs to experience Pentecost. One more time, Ellen White says in the book Review and Herald, Mark 22, 1887, and I quote, "There is nothing that Satan fears so much as the people of God shall clear the way by removing every hindrance so that the Lord can pour out his spirit upon a languishing church and an impenitent congregation." If Satan had his way, there will never be another awakening, great or small, to the end of time. Hear me. Your church board, God is not afraid of it. Your constituency meetings, Satan is not afraid of it. What Satan is afraid of is sermons like this that is going to ask us that our elders in their suit and their tie, they are good at their work, but they are not spiritual. our pastors with our holo degrees including our PhDs. The difficulty is we don't have the Holy Spirit. So the sick cannot be healed. The broken cannot be restored. And you see we are doing church as if it is one of an entertainment issue. Church is a spiritual agenda. It is not secular. And I reiterate today the greatest need of the SCA church. two, one is the Holy Spirit, another is money. Somebody should say an amen. Amen. Why do I say so? We're going to have a little Bible study. So, you are going to indulge me. You are going to indulge me a little. We need what I call the upper room experience. The upper room wasn't a conference. It was a funeral for self. The upper room was not a conference. It was a womb of fire for the church. Hear me loud. New Life Church in Nairobi. We have lost the flame but we have kept the form. This is the issue. Every Saturday it's like a ritual. Spirituality is not necessarily ritual. Every Saturday your auditorium is filled. You sing the song. You do the Sabbath school. You do the children's story immediately we close everybody will go under the trees there is gisting there is conversation we catch up with the weak we go but I can guarantee you chances are that since the beginning of 2025 someone in this auditorium has not yet encountered the power of the Holy Spirit yet Sabbath upon Sabbath you are here my First thing is what do we come to do? Why are we obsessed about the form of religion but we lack the flame of spirituality and this is the reason God must do it again. He has done it in the past and he is going to do it again. And it will only take one message, one Bible study, one encounter, one word, one one revelation and a whole generation will be transformed. Take your Bibles. Let's go to the book of Acts chapter 2. Let's go to the book of Acts chapter 2. Before we read that again, let's bow our heads. I want the organist to give us the song Hover on Me, Holy Spirit. the the choristers, can we sing just the first stanza and we will offer a brief prayer. Let this divine service not be one of your divine service and I want you to personally speak to God and tell God speak to me for I am listening. Can we sing that song? Hover on me. You be seated there and you are going to lead us. Just bow down your head and I want the congregation to sing it. A disclaimer throughout this session we will sing about five song and we will pray about three times before the divine service is ended. So I want you to get used to it. [Music] Heat. Heat. Somebody say, "Feel me now." Feel me now. Feel me now. Jesus, come and fill me now. [Music] Let's bow our heads as they hum that song in one minute. Tell God, "Fill me and speak to me." Pray it personally. Personally. Don't be idle. Whisper that prayer. Those of you joining online, pray, "Spirit of God, feel me and speak to me. Fill me now. All the children in the church, bow on your heads and pray. Ask the Holy Spirit, feel me now. Every young person in the church, it's not the talking time. It's the divine service. So ask God, fill me now. Jesus, speak to me. Father in heaven, in the next moment, speak to us clearly. For we have asked in Jesus's name. Amen. A study of Acts chapter 2. I'll make seven points and we are done. Acts chapter 2. There were seven experiences that this sermon is saying God must do again. Seven experiences in the book of act. Go to Act chapter 2. Let's read verse one. And in verse one is the first experience. The Bible says when the day of Pentecost had come or had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. That's the first thing God must do. He united the room. So when the sermon title said, "Do it again." Lord, the first thing we want to pray God to do is he should unite the room. Listen, there were all with one accord in one place. Unity wasn't just a detailed recording of scripture. It was a doorway to glory. See the Holy Spirit in Act chapter 2 didn't fall on a divided house. He waited for an agreement. Any church divided. I repeat again, we are going to St. Louis. Conferences upon conferences, unions upon unions, division upon division. The Holy Spirit only came when they were not divided. They were united. So hear me. It was an agonizing alignment. 120 individuals, a small church, but they did something. They killed their pride. They crushed their personal agendas. They embraced one purpose. The only reason the Holy Spirit came in Acts two was this was the word of the disciples. We want you Lord. Whatever it cost, we want you. If it's because of my pride, pride, go away. If it's because of my self ambition, go away. If it's because of my canality, go away. Hear me. God delays his power until his people kill their pettiness. The pettiness between generations. The pettiness between the rivalry between pastors and leaders. The petty silence among us with our hidden sins. The petty comparison between worshippers day and night. The petty prejudice in this peel and in this auditorium. The petty pride that blocks tears and the altar. The Holy Spirit can never come unless the pettiness in the church is taken away. One place without one accord is no power, no fire, no move of God. We can be gathered in one place but if we are not in one accord, the Holy Spirit will not be there. So St. Louis 2025 62nd general conference session we can be gathered in one auditorium one stadium one place one hotel one himbook one Bible but if we are not in one accord will never send the Holy Spirit somebody say an amen out there when the day of Pentecost had fully come they were all with one accord in one place hear In my mind, I will say this is my prayer. If I am to re reiterate Pentecost, Lord, tear down our clicks, tear down our denominational egos, tear down the suspicions, tear down the rivalries, bring unity again, not the kind we paint on the flyer, but the kind forge in the upper room intercession. a church of 3,000. I can guarantee you there will be a lot of division here at New Life. The Holy Spirit will not come in this church. You will have worship every Saturday. Nothing will get changed. How can the Holy Spirit come? We must not just be in one place. We must be in one accord. Somebody say an amen out there. He united the room. May God unite the rooms in which we find ourselves today. Experience number two. They said, "And suddenly, there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighting wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting." My focus is, "And suddenly came a sound from heaven as of a rushing might." Hear me. The second thing God must do again is not just to unite the room. He He shook the atmosphere. God must do it again. The atmosphere must be shaken in Kenya. Nairobi must be shaken again. Africa must be shaken again before revival enters the heart. It rattles the airspace. You check it throughout scripture. Whenever God want to send a revival, he rattles the airspace this morning or this afternoon under the authority of God's word. We pray that our comfort zones must be rattled. We pray that our hidden sins must be rattled. We pray that our shallow worship must be rattled. We pray that our divided heart must be rattled. We pray that our church must be rattled before the Holy Spirit come. There must be a shaking. The Bible says God shook the atmosphere. And it must happen one more time. Before the fire came, the sound came. Before the feeling came, the shaking came. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind. and it filled the whole place. Hear me. Revival didn't begin with speaking in tongues. It began with turbulence. God altered the atmosphere and the soundscape before touching the souls. If there is no disturbance, maybe there is no divine presence. And the question we want to ask today is are you available as a vessel or you are a decorated vase attractive but you are very empty with the lipstick and the nice dressing and the nice hair and the beautiful soul but empty vessels. Satan is not afraid of us. Demons are not afraid of us. The world is not afraid of us. We sing lift up the trumpet but nothing is lifted. Why? Our church has become a formality. You can be in the house and you can predict what is going to happen throughout the service. If I dare throughout the year when it is PCM week, we know what to expect. Women's week, we know what to expect. Youth week, we know what to expect. Our church members will not wake up and say, "Lord, I am going to your house. I need an experience. I need your presence." No. Goa, no better music. is more of the same. We we it's it's a routine and everybody's satisfied and nobody want to say we are deceiving ourselves. It is not a secular place. It's a spiritual place. If you you were to be singing, well, I would have asked us to sing the song, oh for that flame of living fire. Hear me loud. God must do it again. What must he do? He needs to unite the room again. What must he do? He needs to shake the atmosphere again. What must he do? Go to the third experience. Act chapter 2, jump to verse number four. Do it again, Lord. What must he do? And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. And they began to speak with other tongues as the spirit gave them utterance. The third thing God must do aside uniting the room, aside shaking the atmosphere, what he did at Pentecost was that he filled vessels. Not just the room. God filled vessels. The room got noisy, but the people got filled. Amen. We come to church, we go, the sound system is loud, the live stream is on, but people come and they go just as they came. No power, no fire, no presence, no anointing. Satan is not terrified. He loves us this way. We have itinerarized every item. No space for the Holy Spirit. The question is, when was the last time you were filled? When was the last time the Holy Spirit filled the vessels? He did not just filled the room, the individuals were filled. Hear me loud. Until we expose the idols we have hidden in our heart, we cannot be filled. Until we confront the fears that keeps us from full surrender, we cannot be filled. Until we break our need for control, we want to control everything, including God. Until we let go, we cannot be filled until we dislod the unforgiveness that crosses the lead for the Holy Spirit's outpouring. We cannot be filled until we awaken the pacificity of lukewarmness in the loudation church. We cannot be filled. We have an atmosphere of revival. But we are not un we are not changed. God will bypass. He will come like a wind, power, fire or a still small voice. Nothing get done. Some of us we know we are not saved. We know we on the path to hell. Do you know the reason why we have never experienced the Holy Spirit? We don't even know what it is like to be filled and moved by the Holy Spirit. Our children don't know what is the Holy Spirit. They have not encountered him. They have not experienced him. Samuel was in the temple. He was in the temple. And when Eli could not understand, the boy went and said, "You are calling me." He said, "No, I did not." 12 years, three times the the man of God perceive a 12-year-old boy is been called by God. And he said, "The next time you hear the voice, you tell him, master, speak for your servant, hear it." God cannot speak to your innocent children. You know the reason why whilst they were being brought up, they don't know what it is to be filled with the Holy Spirit. They are on Tik Tok. They know all the musics that are worldly, but they don't know the part to be filled by the Holy Spirit. Ours is becoming an embarrassment. God, he filled the vessels, not just the room. God fills those who are available. He doesn't fill those who are talented. Anybody, regardless of your status, regardless of your educational background, regardless of your gender, anybody genuinely in search of the infilling power of the Holy Spirit, God will fill the person. But typically, I've been born and bread in this church. Even as you speak right now, some people are angry. Who does he think he is? Go to hell. Let me say it one more time. What is he talking about? Go to hell. Now, we even have the audacity to control and remote the Holy Spirit. Because we feel, we sit in the seat of the Holy Spirit. When God wants to rebuke us, we say, "Who are you to rebuke me? Who do you think you are?" This morning, God declares here, not just to the church here at Nairobi, to the 7th Adventist Church worldwide, don't gather at St. Louis without the power of the Holy Spirit. God is not interested in your report that are being done so that some people will be elected again into power. God is looking for real brokenness, real anointing, real honesty. Use me. We say we are in the last days. We can't see the signs of the last days. Were we not told in those days he poured the spirit on all flesh? Are we not part of the all flesh? So where is the spirit? Where is the spirit? I I I wish the hymn writer says, "Hover on me, Holy Spirit. Bathe my trembling heart and brow. Fill me with a hallowed present. Come, oh come and fill me now. And the writer says, fill me now. It's a desperation. Fill me now, Jesus. You come now and fill me now. Fill me with thy hallowed presence. Come, oh come and fill me now. The second stanza says, "Thou can feel, gracious spirit, though I cannot tell thee how, but I need thee, greatly need thee, come, oh come and fill me now." But our difficulty is we are okay without the Holy Spirit. When was the last time you were going to travel? SDS are so mechanical and the Holy Spirit whispered to you don't go. Paul was going to preach and the Bible said the spirit of Jesus Christ told him you are not going to preach. He went the Holy Spirit you are not going to preach and when he went to lie down then he was called a man from Macedonia was begging Paul you are needed in Macedonia. I ask a question. When was the last time the Holy Spirit personally communicated with you? 30 years of being SDA. Mm- 25 years of being SDA po 10 years of being 7day Adventist. No show. And you wear your suit, you dress every day, you don't feel the step. Lord, where is that spirit who dwells in Abraham and where where is that spirit? But we are very okay. Hear me. The Holy Spirit in act two, he did the third thing. He filled vessels, not just the rooms. I pray today in the name of Jesus, may this room just not be filled. May vessels as willing be filled in the name of Jesus. It is those who need it. I'm going to give you some quote of Len why. You can have an atmosphere of revival, but you can leave and change. Camp meetings upon camp meetings. $300 to $400,000 is being spent. But the question is, when last did you receive the Holy Spirit at our camp meetings? He didn't fill the building. He filled the bodies. My prayer is Lord fill this generation again not just with hype but with holiness not just with excitement but with evidence. Lord do it again. Unite the rooms again. Shake the atmosphere again. Filled vessels again. And that takes me to the second or the fourth experience. Go to Acts chapter 2. Go to verse number two. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. That's not my point. And began to speak with other tongues. My focus is and began to speak with other tongues as the spirit gave them utterance. What is the fourth thing God did and we want him to do again? He gave them a voice. He didn't just feel power. They didn't just feel the power. They found their voices. They didn't just feel it's not just a feeling. They found their voices. They didn't just feel a power. One more time. They found their voices. The spirit didn't just fall to impress us. He fell to ignite them. So we must find our voice in the culture. If the Holy Spirit descend, nobody will tell the Gen Z's they need to find their voice as Christian. They will be unashamedly proud. I am a Christian in the universities. Our girls will not be doing hookup whilst in school and when they come up they dress and come to church. Our girls will not be doing sugar datism. Our boys will not be involved in oultism. Our children will not be engaged sabbat by this time. Some have locked their doors and they masturbate themselves to death. Do you know the reason? The presence of the Holy Spirit will give you a voice in the culture. the culture that is pushing the the current regime and everybody in your country since last year I came h Jenz's jenz's I charge the genz's find your voice in Christ too it's not enough to be on the street it is also enough in the power and the anointing of the holy spirit the jenzes in our church find your voice in this culture we must find our voice in the prayer room jenz's are not praying but They tweets, they retweets and they go and create nude content for Instagram, for Tik Tok and for social media. We must find our voice in the prayer room. We pray. We pray. Young boys and girls, go and check the Mmons. Mmon church, one young person brings 18 people to Jesus. SDA church worldwide, one 18 to 19 SDAs bring one souls to Christ. Something is fundamentally wrong. Nobody can say it. The disciples, what did God do for them? When the Holy Spirit came, he gave them a voice. Where is our voice in this culture? Where is our voice in the prayer room? Where is our voice in the pulpit? Where is our voice in the street? We must find our voice in our generation. They didn't just feel the power. They found their voice. Before Pentecost, they were whispering behind closed doors. They were afraid. Read Acts chapter one. After Pentecost, they shouted to the world in languages they never learn. And the Bible says, "And the Holy Spirit gave them utterances." If your fire doesn't burn into boldness, it counterfeits. When the Holy Spirit is there, it is there. I want us to listen. When we are talking about find our voices, ladies and gentlemen, in the boardroom, the SGA manager, God has lifted you. You are from a village. God has lifted you. He has exalted you. Your position is not been used to advance the kingdom. Yet you dress and dress and pack your car and show up in church. You have arrived. God says to the SDA elders, leaders, women, professional, he has elevated you in the boardroom. Find your voice in the boardroom. When everybody's corrupt, you will say, uh, the greatest want of the world is the want of men. Men who will not be bought or sold, men who in their in soul are true and honest, men whose consciences are true to duty at the needle to the pole, men who will stand for the right though the heavens fall. That is a voice you are found. When you are a manager, you don't employ people because of pelvic activities. You employ them basis on on merits. It's not because of tribe. It's not because of ethnicity. Find your voice. And when you find your voice in the boardroom, in the classroom, on the street, wherever you find yourself, the statement of this king becomes true. Lift up the trumpet and loud let it ring. Jesus is coming again. Sher up pilgrims be joyful and sing Jesus is coming again. The second stanza say echo it hilltops proclaim it ye plains Jesus is coming again. Coming in glory the lamb that was slain. Jesus is coming again. The test standard says heavens of earth the foundry throne. Jesus is coming again. Tempest and whirlwind. The anthem prolonged Jesus is coming again. Coming again. Coming again. Jesus is coming again. By that we find our voice. Nations are angry. By this we do know. Be it in Iran or be it in Israel, be it in Russia or be it in Ukraine, be it in South Sudan, nations are angry. By this we do know Jesus is coming again. Knowledge increase. AI is here with us. Knowledge men are running to and fro. Jesus is coming again. New life church. Find your voice. Each one bring one. It's not sloganing. Our children like the wild dances. They go to the universities. How can we lose 50% of our children? Which spirit is leading them? They can't find their voices in the in the house. Fathers don't pray. Listen, we memorize the the Sabbath school to show off on Sabbath. Sit down with your Sabbath school. Your children cannot pray. Your wife doesn't know the Bible. You can't lead your family and you are in your thigh bold thinking you are doing something. Sit down. The Holy Spirit rebuke all the hypocrisy and the duplicity. You don't pray yet you have a form of godliness denying the power thereof. We don't need We we we we don't need this in the church. We need genuine people. We need genuine people. There should be a time elders are appointed and they go to see the nominating committee. They say the place of my spirituality this year I can't leave the church. I am tired. I am born and bred in this church. My prayer is master give us a voice again, a voice for campuses, a voice for cities, a voice for the marketplace, a voice in politics, a voice in media, a voice to challenge the culture, a bold, uncompromising and unashamed voice. We need a voice. And the question this morning afternoon is who have you refused to reconcile with in the name of ministry? Can God trust this room to host him? Can he give us a voice again? God did seven things in Pentecost. He united the room. He shook the atmosphere. He filled vessels, not just rooms. He gave them a voice. And the fifth thing he did, why I title it, do it again, Lord. Look at verse 14. Acts chapter 2 verse14. But Peter standing up. Yo, the Bible used but. But but is a negative particle. It means it negates all what was said. But Peter standing up with the 11 raised his voice and said to them, "When we find our voices collectively, hear me, he turned cowards into lions." What he did at Pentecost, cowards were converted into lions. Peter stood up. Peter, the same Peter who denied Jesus now declares to the public is the Messiah. He's risen. He's alive forever more. The same Peter, a coward, now he turned into a lion. Hear me. What did Jesus do for Peter to do what he did? He can do it again. Some of us we have failed many times including the preacher. But he can turn cowards into lion. How? What did he do? He heals the wounds that made us afraid. He confronts the lies that keep us small. He turns our failures into fire. He gives us something worth dying for. Some of us don't know what to die for. You are not living until you are found something not to live for but you are ready to die for. He makes us unrecognizable to the enemy. The songwriter says stand up. Stand up for Jesus. Can we sing that one? I didn't like the way you you caught the first song. Can you do better now? 618. Can we stand on our feet? We're going to sing. I want this room to sing. Everybody projected for us all the stanzas. Stand up. Stand up for Jesus. In a culture that disgraces Jesus. God says, "I need a group that will stand up." We are singing all the stanzas. All the stanzas. If you're a mother, a father, you are close by your children. Just hold their hands and let them sing it. It will stay in their memory. Once upon a time, it was this West African loud preacher who came here and we sang that song. Stand up. Stand up for Jesus. We are singing all the stanzas song and I want to hear Kenya sing. I don't care if you sing it in Kiswahi. I don't care. All I care is sing it. Just sing that song. The fourth stanza will be done in unison. We'll transpose over the third st. No, I want the whole church to sing it all together. Everybody to sing it all together. Yes. All right. 618. If you are watching online, open your hbook and join us. Sing. Comes to life. Lift up your voice. I can hear you. I can hear you. [Applause] [Music] Victory his army. He shall live till every f is vanquished. Every Christ is Christ. Stand up. Stand up. [Music] The trumpet calls. I am looking for men who will stand with me to the mighty God in this glorious day glorious day now [Music] against [Music] let courage rise with danger with danger we sing the Send us [Applause] it is strength alone. Don't trust anything the arm of flesh into failure. Not your certificate, not your power. [Music] God and watching us to pray for danger in the last [Music] The noise of battle. The battle against sin, battle against the overall shall be. Be the king of all glory shall bring it. To him the overcome. To him the to come [Music] of life shall be. Be with the king of glory. You can be seated. Thank you. Be seated in the presence of God. Hear me loud. Hear me clear. One touch from the spirit reverse Peter's worst failure. a reminder to how we forever castigate those who have fallen. Some of us have become spiritual adjudicators. He's a sinner. She's a sinner. Peter denied the Lord. He apostasized. He said, "I renounce my faith." But after few days, this same Peter touched by the spirit, a revival ensued. He stood in Pentecost. Hear me, God's fire turns your shame into a sermon. And he's willing to do it today. My prayer is Lord raise men and women on our campuses, in our churches who were formerly addicted, who were formerally confused, who were formerly broken and now they roar for the kingdom. Don't write that girl off because today she's a lesbian. Don't Don't run that elder down because today he's struggling with a weakness. A Peter yesterday, a rejector of Christ 40 days time, an evangelist who brought 3,000. The whole church sat and they said, "Brethren, we knew the weaknesses of Peter, but Peter loves the Lord. Peter loves the Lord. And because of the gift the Lord has given Peter, let Peter stand in ourstead. Those of us who have not fallen, we know God can still use a Peter and Peter proclaim a rebuke to our church. How we treat the backs leading, how we treat the young people who have failed in their certain years, elders, pastors. Let's remember when the Holy Spirit touched Peter, one touch, his entire failure was reversed. The Holy Spirit did seven things. Read it with me. Number one, what did he do? He united the room. Number two, what did he do? He shook the atmosphere. Number three, what did the Holy Spirit do? He filled vessels, not just the rooms. Number four, what did the Holy Spirit do? He gave them a voice. Number five, what did the Holy Spirit do? He turned cowards into lions. What else did he do? Look at verse six. And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and were confused because everyone heard them speak in his own language. This is the case. He drew crowds without marketing. The Holy Spirit drew crowds without marketing. And the question I asked whilst I was studying this is how did the Holy Spirit do it? And the Holy Spirit reminded me I chose the right season in the right venue because the Holy Spirit knew at that time it will happen. People will be gathered from all over the world. So the Holy Spirit you see sometimes we are not even strategic. We are going to do crusade. Only God can tell who spirit is leading us. Foolish decisions, backward decisions. But the Holy Spirit chose the right venue, the right season. How I pray at checkboard meetings, at constituency meetings, at sessions, we will choose the right season and the right venue. The university students here, hear me. You can't do evangelism on campus and be doing the same thing that the local churches have been doing. This backward thing we have done for over 160 years and we are still struggling. No. When the Holy Spirit was there, if you want the Holy Spirit to draw the crowds and without the marketing, number one, let's choose the right season. Let's choose the right venue. Let's choose the right speakers. Let's choose the right personnel. What else did the Holy Spirit do? He made holiness unmistakable. The Holy Spirit made their holiness noticeable. Until our holiness is noticeable, we will scream each one bring one mission possible. Ay, all this. No. Aside the right season, the right venue, the Holy Spirit must make our holiness unmistakable. The Holy Spirit is by hosting glory. The Holy Spirit was not involved in gimmicks. He was hosting glory. The glory of the Lord was at Pentecost. So the crowds were attracted to the Holy Spirit. our pastors, our elders who is getting attracted. We spend a lot of time to do the theory of the preaching and few time is spent on our knees. So there is no glory. When we enter the evangelistic meetings, there are no signs. There are no wonders. Nobody's afraid. Presence of God is not there. There is gimmicks. Gimmicks. Charcoal and clay gimmicks. In the name of medical missionaries, gimmicks. I dealt with it this week. Go online and check it out. Gimmicks. The gimmicks. Your PA system is bad. And you have your shrine. You arrange your cloth. Green cloth in Kenya. One wood here, one wood here, one wood here, one here. Then you are saying let us pray. The Holy Spirit is not even What kind of foolishness is this? He's saying I'm not interested in this gimmicks. I want to host glory. The best must be for the Lord. If it must be done for God, it must be done how well. And the Holy Spirit leverage their undeniable transformation. He their curiosity in their heart. And through the fragrance of prayer and worship, they could not stand. The Bible says they all join constantly in prayer. Acts 1:14. Take the SDA church worldwide. Prayer time in church all the service period less than two hours. I repeat prayer time. What was the goal of today's service? What did we want the Lord to do for this service? Nobody plans. Choir, musicians, no strategy, nothing. Everybody just walk in, they sit down and you want God to host what? Where is the anointing? You are. We are lazy to see the presence of God. It doesn't come easy. Jesus fasted 40 days. You want eat your chapati and your ugali with your protruded stomach and you want to host with anointing. It is not there. No prayer, no worship and we need to spend time. So when we come to church because from our various homes there is no fire. So you come to church you will need to you need to scream and scream before they started catch a little fire. After one week he's dead again. The Sabbath becomes like a cocaine drug. I come here to get some for the week. Everybody comes to get some. No fire. The Holy Spirit, he drew crowds without marketing. What must we do before crowds will fill our spaces without marketing? Our egos must bow. Our programs must bow. Our celebrity cult must bow. The pastors we have made ourselves superstars. Our comfort zones must pow. Our fear of offending people must pow. People is speaking I don't want I want to be in new life. Don't invite me again. I don't care. I will go and sleep with my wife. She's a young woman. You can take your church and go. I'm not here to speak to make you please. I have only one assignment to honor God. Period. I don't want to be popular. I want to be faithful. I can go to sleep before Jesus can bring crowds without marketing. We need to bow one more time. Our egos must bow. One more time. Our programs committee cannot even tell what God is saying for this hour. Nobody has the ear to know what God is saying. Our celebrity culture must bow. Our comfort must bow. Our fears of offending conference GC leaders or division leaders must pow or the political class it must bow. The songwriter in SA 8570 says not I but Christ be honored love and exalted. Not I but Christ be seen be known and be heard. Not I but Christ in every look and action. Not I but cries in every thought and word for God to draw crowds without flyers without hashtag without hide. Something in ours must fall. I pray today Lord in me let my ego fall. Lord in me let my programs bow. Lord in me let my celebrity and nature bow. Lord in me let my comfort bow. Lord in me let my fear bow. God doesn't need hashtags when he finds holiness. Heaven advertised Pentecost because the people hosted him in secret. If the Holy Spirit is truly present, people will find it even without flies. And my prayer is do it again Lord. Draw students, draw professors and strangers by your presence. Let revival go viral. Not digitally but divinely. We are so obsessed about digitization and we have lost track of the most important things. Are we trying to draw crowds to empty rooms or rooms full of him? Lord, do it again. He united the atmosphere. He shook He united the room. Shook the atmosphere. He filled vessels, not the rooms. He gave them a voice. He turned cowards into lions. He drew crowds without marketing. And the last thing the Holy Spirit did is in verse 37. We could get 15, but for the sake of time, I'll deal with seven. Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" The seventh thing the Holy Spirit did, which is the last for this session, he cut hearts, not just impress minds. Don't tell me it was a good sermon. Let it cut hearts. Who cares about your eloquence? We want the anointing that backs the eloquence. Real revival doesn't need end. It doesn't end in claps. It ends in conviction. The goal was not a better theology. It was brokenness. Peter didn't preach a sweet sermon. He preached a sword. The spirit used it to pierce the heart. And this is what I say. By preaching the word, how did he do? Check the text. Peter preached the word. The whole sermon you check it. Peter used the Old Testament extensively. Do you want to see revival? Use the Bible. All we are saying for almost an hour is just eight verses. How can he pierce heart by preaching what offends before it heals? How can the Holy Spirit cut hearts not just impress minds? By confronting hidden sins, not just surface struggles. How can the Holy Spirit pierce heart and not just impress minds? By awakening holy grief, not just emotional tears. How can the Holy Spirit pierce heart and not just impress mind? By removing the idols that dull our conscience. How can the Holy Spirit tears heart and not just impress minds? By restoring the fire of the Lord. The spirit of God doesn't just comfort. He confronts. He confront our sins. Not just our struggles. He confront our silence in the face of truth. He confront our religious performance. He confronts our comfortable compromise. He confronts our shallow Christianity. He confronts our pride disguised as boldness. He confronts our the use of grace as a license for sin. He confronts our delayed obedience. He confronts our private duplicity and hypocrisy. He confronts our holiness in the name of holiness. The spirit doesn't just comfort, it confronts. My prayer is do it again. Lord, send cutting swords and words that makes us weep, that makes us repent, and that will make us return. Don't just give us songs and sermons. Give us sorrow that leads to surrender. When was the last time God's word hurt you in a way that it later healed you? This moment I want to give you some quotes of Ellen White but I'm done. God knows I preach from his word. If you are here you know before God and man they are talking about campus ministries beyond boundaries. No, Oper Maxwell and the team. It's not eloquent, it's anointing. Students cannot be on fire without the Holy Spirit. If you don't have the Holy Spirit, you know, and you are not ashamed, but you desperately need it. Let me see your hand. Lift it up. I don't have it. I'm not ashamed before a God. Hands down. The duplicity will show again. You know you don't have it, but you are ashamed to say you don't have it. One more time. If you are here, you don't you know God is your witness. This message is mine. I don't have the Holy Spirit and I need him now. Lift up your hands. Hands up. I'll say it one more time. Maybe maybe let me quote this. Maybe it will let you see the danger of the question I'm asking. Ellen White says, "Before you go and say that I have backsliden before the final visitation of God's judgment upon the earth, there will be among the people of God among the people of the Lord such a revival of primitive godliness as has not been been witnessed since apostolic times. The spirit and power of God will be poured upon his children. Great controversy page 4:6 says, "Now the work will be similar to that of the day of Pentecost. As the former reign was given in the outpouring of the Holy Spirit at the opening of the gospel, the cause to cause the upspring of the of the precious seed. So the latter rain will be given at its close for the ripening of the harvest. And the question you ask is where are we likely to receive this latter rain or this Holy Spirit and the rest of it. I have a whole presentation on it. Let me just give you two in case you think gatherings like this must not be spiritual. The convocations of the church as in camp meetings, the assemblies of the home church and all occasions where there is personal labor for souls are God's appointed opportunities for giving the early and the latter rain. Where can you receive it? During divine service, during camp meetings, during personal labor this afternoon, someone will receive the Holy Spirit. If you need it, stand. Don't talk, just stand. Those of you watching online, if you know you don't have the Holy Spirit and you want to receive this Holy Spirit, just tie, I need the Holy Spirit. One more time. If you know you don't have the Holy Spirit and you want the Holy Spirit, just tie, I need the Holy Spirit. You don't need to talk. There is no need for talking. We are going to sing one song now as I make this call. If you are in this place, you want to be baptized both by water and the Holy Spirit. As I we will be singing this song, I want you to give me a good song which the congregation can sing. Now whether or brother be faithful if you know it, we will sing that song. If you want to be baptized of water and the Holy Spirit, you come right here. I will not beg and plead. Will you receive the Lord? I won't do that. You want to be baptized of water and the Holy Spirit. As we sing the song, oh brother, be faithful, walk down the aisle. Whether you're a university student, whether you are a a youth, what whichever you are, God has spoken to you. You want to give your life to Jesus and be baptized. As everybody is standing seated, even before we start singing, walk and come here right now. Nobody will pamper you. Just walk and come here. Oh brother, be faithful, my dear. Come here. I want to be baptized with water and the Holy Spirit. As we sing that song and everybody will sing that song. I want you to just walk and come here. All those who want to be baptized, you come. God bless you. I want to be baptized. Yes. Come please. We don't want those who will enter water and come out as demons. You want to give your life to Jesus genuinely and honestly walk and come new life. Lift up your voice. [Music] Who wants to get baptized? Just walk and count. We're going to stand the first answer again. Let's go to the first answer. Everybody in the auditorium, lift up your voice. Come on. I want to be baptized. You come here. Don't come if you don't mean it. We don't need you here if you don't mean it. You should only come if you want to accept Jesus and be baptized and receive the Holy Spirit. Then you come. Oh brother, be faithful. Oh brother [Music] [Applause] to him and God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. I want to give it's not a popularity context. We don't want numbers. 1 minute. 1 minute. I am tired of preaching and then you see I was in KC 2007 a group,700. No. And it is more of the same. If you want to walk and come here, be sure you want to give your life to Jesus. Not 99% 100%. You want to be baptized not just of water. You also want to receive the Holy Spirit. You come. If you are here, you are backsliding from the Lord. You have been living in sin and this morning or afternoon the Holy Spirit has convicted you. And Ellen White says such individuals sometimes will need rebaptism. Or you have gone to the far country. You have been like the lost coin. You are in the church but you are lost. Or you are like the lost sheep. You are lost and you are not aware. Now you are knowing. Or you are like the prodigal son. You left because you wanted something gaps, something better. And the Holy Spirit has convicted you. You want to be rebaptized and commits to God fulltime, not part- time. As we sing that song, oh brother, be faithful. Walk down the aisle and come. But remember, you are doing nobody a favor. You are doing your own self a favor. Let's sing that song again. Oh brother, be faithful. Who wants to come? Just walk and come. Oh brother, be faithful. I want to give my life to Jesus. I want to be baptized or rebaptized. Just walk and come. [Music] Oh brother, be faithful. [Music] If you are joining online, you want to be baptized, just add your name or just indicate and our communication team will reach out to you. Whichever country you are from, whichever space you are from, you want to be baptized and give yourself to Jesus. Not part time, full time, indicate it virtually. We'll reach out to you. [Applause] [Music] victory and victory. Lift up your voice. Somebody say, "Oh brother, be faithful." Oh brother, be faithful. [Music] [Applause] [Music] is to the joy of the Lord. [Music] Is there somebody here who want to be baptized? Come out. Come out. The Holy Spirit is searching. It has arrested you. Walk and come out and give your life to Jesus. Oh brother, be faithful. Be faithful. The proise is true. The praise for the faithful and toart and Jesus. You know what the voice now? I've made two appeals so far. Those who want to receive the Holy Spirit, God sees you standing. Those who want to get baptized and the baptism call is going. The receiving of the Holy Spirit is going. I'm making the last call. If you are here, hear me. The gospel needs some intelligent minds. The gospel needs the best brains. The gospel needs the finest heart. And the young people are in the universities. I charge this church before God at least once a year organize a top class intelligent powerful spiritfilled crusade on the university campus once a year. So in this regard, anybody in this place who has a burden, I want to support Campus Ministries, not with my mouth, with my resources. I want you to raise up your hand. It's not for everybody. It's just some people. Listen, ministering to universities is expensive. We need certain resources. We need You want to support the PCM of your church? Look, anytime they are talking about ministry to the student, hear me red, reduce it a little. This church, hear me, the future of your church is in the university. Listen, if you invest on campus, when they come to Nairobi, they will come to your church. Say an amen. The next SDA rich men when they come to Nairobi, your capital, they will come to your church. go to the campuses now let the campuses know this is their home this is where they find solace so I make a special appeal if you are here and you don't need to be cocky about it you want to put your resources at campus ministries I want you to come right to me here and pray a special prayer a certain number and the Holy Spirit as God has instructed I will do my part and Monday I'll be gone. Is there someone in this auditorium who want to say God's will based on God's word this niche ministry that many time doesn't have funding here the charismatics they are connecting our young people they are moving there is no resources on campus is there someone here I will just do this for 2 minutes you want to support campus ministries not with any amount as the lord blesses you I want you to come here and I'll pray a special prayer for you right here this place. Not with your mouth, with your pocket. Come. I want to support campus ministries with my resources. Please come. This day is the campus ministries day. So when they are talking about how do we dismantle aphism, agnosticism and all this religious nuances, the next generation of politicians for Nairobi of Kenya who will be Adventist, they are in the universities. My brother, God bless you. God bless you. I want to fund and support campus ministries. Please walk and come and I'm going to pray that the Lord will let you abound and prosper. Is there anybody here? I want to fund campus ministries and you are online. You indicate we reach out to you. This church's campus ministries must be the model for East Africa. The whole of East Africa. They are talking about ministry to university student. This should be the citadel. New life is just someone who wants to put their money at where God needs the best brains. Come on. [Music] Let's sing the first answer of stand up for Jesus quietly and we are going to pray. I I apologize for keeping you a little high. Forgive me. My dear sister, God bless you. My brother, God bless you. After this song, we are going to pray the closing prayer. Before we sing it in the afternoon, I'm going to give a Bible study on the Bible's position on money. Ellen White's position on money. I said two things we need in the last days. The Holy Spirit, I preach it. The same power and passion. Don't stay under the tree. Don't go home and eat ugali and chapati. come back and we are going to study for one and a half hours for this afternoon. Let's sing stand up for Jesus. Hold somebody's hand. Hold somebody's hand. Just the first stanza. Hold somebody's hand. God bless your decisions. Stand up. Come ones on the cross. Lift up his royal battle royal. It must not suffer, Lord. Lord, lift up your right hand. Come on. Unto victory. Just lift up your right hand. His army shall he shall till every fall is vanquished. And Christ is Lord indeed. Christ is Lord. Let's sing the last. [Music] When the world is confused, we stand with Jesus. This suffering, it will end one day. The noise of the next you hear the victory song to him that overcometh that overth. All God shall be here with the king of glory shall bring eternal. Father in heaven we bless your name in this church. We want one thing. Do it again. What we have read, what we have been told in our lifetime, do it again. You promise in those days you pour your spirit on all flesh. Lord, do it again. You said in those days we will walk on the other scorpions and lions. Lord, do it again. You said when we cast the demons, they will flee. Lord, do it again. You said when we preach and we lay hands on the sick, the sick will be healed. Lord, do it again. We pray that in this last days, anyone in this auditorium who genuinely desires the Holy Spirit, may they receive it one by one, family to family, individuals to individuals. We pray for those who want to use their resources to support campus ministries in the name of the risen Christ. Lord bless the works of their hands. May they abound. May our students not beg for bread. May they not struggle to be taught of God when resources are needed. If you are looking for people to put it in their hands, these ones who are publicly declared, Lord, bless them with wealth. Bless them with money. Bless them with opportunities. Open doors for them in a very special way. As you bless the church, for them, bless them in a special way. They have covenanted not with a man but with God. May you do for them according to your promise. To those who want to be baptized. We pray that their baptism will not just be baptism of water. May they also receive the Holy Spirit. what you have done on Pentecost, do it again, Lord. Do it with our children, Lord. Do it with our young people, Lord. Do it with our guests. Lord, do it in this church, Lord. Let there be a new life. Let this church a new leave. May power, may presence, may anointing, may signs and wonders, may the spirit of God be felt in this place. Beginning right now, may we begin to see manifestation of a sober congregation. May God bless you. May God exalt you. May God lift his hand upon you. May this Sabbath be a memorable Sabbath for you. May you go in the power of God. May your life never be the same again. Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before his throne with exceeding joy to our only wise God, our Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory, to him be power, to him be majesty both now and forever. In Jesus's name, amen. You can be seated. God bless 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[0.5s] [Music]
[5.3s] Let's bow our heads and let us pray.
[7.4s] Father in heaven,
[9.6s] we pray this morning in the powerful
[12.6s] name of Jesus.
[15.0s] We pray for your presence.
[17.6s] We pray for an anointing.
[20.2s] We pray for the Holy Spirit.
[23.0s] We pray for revival.
[25.6s] We pray for power. We pray for God's
[29.4s] presence. We pray for healing.
[33.2s] We pray for redemption.
[35.7s] We pray for presence. Now any power, any
[40.5s] throne, any principality,
[44.0s] any demonic presence in this place, may
[47.6s] there be silence.
[49.7s] May the power of God hover around this
[52.7s] place. Today we pray for God's presence
[57.5s] in a very unusual way. We pray for power
[61.4s] in this sanctuary. We pray that anything
[64.5s] that is an obstacle to the proclamation
[67.3s] of the gospel, may the power of God
[70.2s] contend against them. We pray for any
[73.6s] distraction. We pray for any spirit that
[77.3s] will steal our alertness so that we can
[80.4s] be redeemed. Spirit of God, you promise
[84.1s] you will be in this place. This is the
[86.8s] hour. This is the moment now. Not I, but
[91.4s] Christ beed love and exalted.
[95.4s] Not I, but Christ. Be seen, be known,
[100.2s] and be heard. Not I, but Christ in every
[105.2s] look and action. not I but Christ in
[109.6s] every thought and word in Jesus name.
[113.6s] Amen.
[117.2s] I on behalf of the leadership of your
[119.8s] church uh welcome you to this service. I
[124.2s] want to personally thank the pastor or
[127.6s] the pastors and the PCM committee and
[131.3s] the entire church family for the
[133.7s] privilege accorded me to join you here
[136.5s] for the past one week and a special
[139.6s] thanks goes to uh engineer operry and
[143.0s] Maxwell they have worked tirelessly and
[146.6s] I know it's been a long time um for this
[150.3s] to happen it's a privilege to join you
[154.0s] before I also go into God's word I bring
[158.3s] special greetings from my family my wife
[161.8s] and my daughter they send a special
[164.3s] regard and they want me to extend their
[167.2s] love to you so that I have done and have
[170.5s] fulfilled righteousness.
[172.6s] Our subject for today is do it again
[176.6s] Lord. Do it again Lord. I want to give a
[180.2s] little disclaimer. We are going to
[183.4s] preach, we will sing, we will pray. We
[186.6s] may do a little over one hour. Just a
[189.0s] disclaimer. So the time is 11:56.
[192.6s] And since you decided to be away from
[195.2s] the PCM week throughout the week, I have
[197.5s] arrested you today and I will not let
[200.4s] you go scot-free.
[203.2s] as I always do. It was Jesus himself who
[207.1s] said, "If you continue in my words, then
[211.3s] you are my disciples indeed and you
[214.4s] shall know the truth and the truth shall
[217.4s] set you free. If the son set you free,
[222.0s] you will be free indeed." Let someone in
[225.3s] this auditorium say an amen. Amen. No,
[228.4s] that is a weak one. Let someone say an
[230.8s] amen. Amen. I can't take this yet. Let
[233.7s] someone say an amen. Amen. I can manage
[237.0s] this. I make to you four promises.
[239.5s] Promise number one is the Bible shall be
[242.6s] the bedrock of our study. And the reason
[245.4s] is the Bible means what it says and says
[249.7s] just what it means. Promise number two,
[251.8s] you are going to be enlightened
[253.4s] irrespective of who you are. Promise
[255.8s] number three, you are going to be
[257.5s] challenged to make the most important
[259.6s] decision of your life. And promise
[261.8s] number four, our lives, your life and
[264.7s] mine will never be the same. I want to
[268.6s] welcome the entire New Life family to
[274.0s] a unique solution to a challenge the
[276.8s] general conference has reiterated.
[279.9s] I don't know if you are aware
[282.4s] less than 75%
[285.9s] in fact only 25% to 30% of seventh day
[290.9s] Adventist have daily morning devotion.
[295.5s] Technically
[297.0s] less than just about 25 to 30% make time
[301.2s] for morning devotion every day. So when
[305.8s] we did the 10 days program titled back
[309.8s] to the altar in 2010
[313.3s] uh 2023 we started a daily morning
[316.3s] devotion we call it's on your screen
[318.9s] called uplift your morning. So every
[321.8s] morning your time in Kenya 8:00 a.m. 30
[325.6s] minutes we take a Bible passage and we
[329.4s] make a meeting and we pray about 32
[332.2s] countries gather every morning including
[335.3s] Saturday mornings 8:00 to 8:30. So I
[339.2s] personally want to extend invitation.
[341.8s] Anybody in search of an authentic
[344.8s] devotional life, I ask and invite you to
[348.6s] join us at uplift your morning every
[351.1s] single day. For example, this month
[354.8s] ending on Monday, our theme is relent.
[358.9s] When God softens what life hardens,
[363.4s] it is a daily. I encourage you
[366.8s] personally as I lead it. I am being
[369.2s] blessed and I know you are going to be
[372.2s] blessed as well. Lastly, before we open
[374.7s] the Bible, I bring you greetings also
[377.4s] from our ministry. We call it SCAM
[381.0s] center for outreach, mentorship and
[385.0s] empowerment. Our entire crew asked me
[388.2s] also to send a special greetings.
[391.9s] Throughout this week, we have been
[394.4s] attempting to deal with the theme called
[399.5s] charge commissioned.
[402.5s] And for the past seven days, today is
[405.3s] the eighth day, I have led by the grace
[408.6s] of God series of presentations.
[411.9s] Few of you joined in the course of the
[414.1s] week. Day number one, we are making a
[417.0s] case for campus ministries. Let me give
[420.3s] some brief insight. On Sabbath I told
[423.3s] you we are losing our young people.
[427.9s] Every 10 SDAs that go to university
[431.6s] after 4 years 45% will not return almost
[436.6s] five they leave the church.
[439.4s] Two our professionals who are usually
[443.5s] graduate from the university we are
[446.2s] losing them. how 65% of Adventist
[451.0s] professionals cannot tell exactly the
[456.0s] reason they are 7th day Adventists.
[460.7s] So there is a danger now. The best
[465.4s] brains of Kenya right now they are in
[468.3s] the universities.
[470.0s] In the next 25 to 30 years the captains
[473.7s] of industries the president of Kenya
[476.9s] chances are that currently he or she is
[480.5s] in the university. We have done a lot of
[483.6s] crusades and uh campaigns in the
[487.0s] villages. The world church is saying we
[491.0s] ought to focus on campus. Campus
[494.8s] ministries comes with some benefit. Let
[496.9s] me just give two or three.
[499.3s] If you are looking for the
[500.7s] intelligential, the people who have deep
[503.4s] pocket, who can argue, defend, protect
[507.0s] the doctrines of our church and harness
[510.3s] power for Jesus to come. It is the prof
[514.0s] the the the university student currently
[516.7s] in Africa only 20% of Africans have
[520.1s] access to tertiary education. So the
[523.3s] charismatic pentecostals they have taken
[525.9s] the campus as their bread basket. You
[529.4s] win them we are not able to win the top
[532.7s] class in society. Also in the university
[536.4s] we love our local churches more than
[539.0s] missions in the university. So this day
[542.1s] the world church is rallying everybody.
[544.8s] We need to think strategically. We need
[547.8s] to think intentionally. If you want your
[551.6s] church to be built in 5 years, you need
[555.4s] university student who become
[557.3s] professionals. These are the leaders of
[560.2s] the world. So we can't afford new life.
[564.5s] It's only your church and few on the
[567.0s] continent who held one week to remember
[570.9s] campus ministries. I want you to say an
[573.0s] amen to yourself. Amen. That's a week
[575.4s] one. I want you to say an amen to
[577.0s] yourself. Amen. Your church has done
[579.6s] well to use a full week to emphasize on
[584.0s] campus ministries. So the church
[586.6s] leaders, the church board members, if
[589.0s] you are thinking what can we do to help
[592.3s] the global church, the church in the
[594.5s] East African bell and around the world,
[597.4s] invest at campus ministries. So on day
[600.7s] number one, I talk about the forgotten
[603.8s] battle why campus ministries hold the
[607.3s] future of the church. You can check it
[609.8s] online. Day number two, we look at
[612.6s] blueprints for a movement, heaven's
[616.0s] vision for campus ministry.
[619.5s] Day number three, we looked at lost in
[622.3s] plain sight. Why discipleship
[626.2s] is the only defense. Day number four, we
[629.9s] studied on from funds to fellow
[633.8s] followers, the cost of disciplehip. And
[637.1s] day number five and day number six, we
[639.3s] did part one and two of invading the
[642.5s] intellectual jungle, turning secular
[645.8s] campuses into spiritual lunch. And
[649.1s] yesterday in the evening we look at
[651.7s] where nations are born, the secret
[654.6s] assignment of campus ministries. And for
[658.5s] this moment, we title it do it again
[662.8s] Lord.
[664.4s] Our scripture text is Acts 1 verse 8.
[669.8s] The Bible says, "But you shall receive
[672.2s] power when the Holy Spirit has come upon
[675.7s] you, and you shall be witnesses to me in
[679.8s] Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria
[684.3s] and to the end of the earth." From this
[687.6s] verse we carved a theme for the week
[691.2s] called called
[694.9s] charge commission. Called means you
[698.8s] shall be witnesses to me. God has called
[701.9s] us. Then we said we are charged. You
[705.0s] shall receive the power. And then we
[707.9s] have been commissioned to go to the ends
[710.6s] of the earth. But I have a bad news for
[713.8s] us this morning.
[715.8s] The bad news is there is no power.
[720.8s] There are two difficulties facing the
[722.6s] SDA church.
[724.8s] One of them is what I will talk about
[726.4s] this afternoon. Uh this right now in the
[729.4s] afternoon I will talk about the second
[731.2s] one. The first one is a lack of the Holy
[734.4s] Spirit.
[735.9s] The second one is we are poor people.
[739.0s] Period. Two problems.
[742.6s] Let me say it one more time. two main
[745.0s] difficulties facing the SDA church
[747.2s] worldwide. One, a lack of the Holy
[750.5s] Spirit which I will address now and in
[753.4s] the afternoon. We are poor people.
[758.0s] Now
[760.1s] whereas there is a promise of power, the
[763.5s] church has no power.
[766.7s] Whereas there is a promise of the
[769.0s] efficacy of power, the church has no
[772.4s] power. And by extension the universities
[775.6s] where we are to work there is no power.
[778.6s] Our young people are growing. They don't
[781.0s] know even how to interface with the Holy
[784.0s] Spirit.
[786.2s] They know how to sing Father Abraham.
[789.3s] They know how to do the ay the fly
[792.2s] flying marines.
[794.2s] They know all the things. Our young
[797.0s] people have not received the Holy
[799.4s] Spirit.
[800.9s] Many people in the 7th day Adventist
[802.8s] church have been baptized by immersion
[805.8s] but they have not been baptized by the
[807.8s] Holy Spirit.
[810.2s] And it is for this reason I'm contending
[814.3s] the need on the universities is the
[817.3s] modern campus needs an ancient fire.
[823.7s] Is there a promise of fire or power?
[827.4s] Certainly.
[829.0s] But why is it that God has promised
[831.6s] power and our elders don't have the
[835.0s] power? Our pastors don't have the power.
[838.9s] We are going to St. Louis. Could it be
[842.1s] we will gather again with a lot of
[844.8s] millions of dollars, but the absence of
[847.8s] the Holy Spirit?
[851.0s] The Bible says, "For thine is the
[854.2s] kingdom and the power, yet there is no
[858.6s] power." Matthew 10:1. And when he had
[862.5s] called unto him, his 12 disciples, he
[865.9s] gave them power.
[869.1s] John 1 verse number 12. But as many as
[873.1s] received him, to them gave he power. Why
[878.4s] is there a promise of power but we have
[881.0s] not seen the power? 2 Timothy chapter
[883.4s] 1:7
[885.0s] for God have not given us the spirit of
[887.8s] fear but of power. There is a promise of
[892.9s] power but our church your church and
[896.2s] mine there is no power. When I say there
[899.3s] is no power it's not the buildings. Our
[902.3s] church members are destitute of power.
[905.4s] Our church leaders are destitute of
[908.2s] power. Our young people are destitute of
[911.5s] power. Behold, I give unto you power.
[916.2s] Where is the power? Ephesians 6:10. Be
[920.8s] strong in the Lord and in the power of
[924.6s] his might. When was the last time you
[927.8s] felt a move of the power of the Holy
[931.8s] Spirit? It's more or less theoretical.
[935.4s] We read about it. We hear sermons about
[938.3s] it. When was the last time you felt a
[941.6s] presence, an anointing of the Holy
[944.4s] Spirit in your life, in your home, at
[947.7s] your place of work? When was the last
[950.2s] time I repeat again, there is a
[952.9s] destitute of power that the power of
[956.6s] Christ may rest upon me? Paul says,
[960.2s] ladies and gentlemen, for the kingdom of
[962.2s] God, it's not in word. We talk too much
[965.5s] in this church, but we lack power. We
[969.0s] debate a lot in our church, but we lack
[971.7s] power. We don't like to be told, we can
[974.8s] tell other churches, they are the mark
[976.8s] of the beast. They are lost. But the 7th
[979.3s] day Adventist church doesn't like to be
[980.7s] told the truth. I stand in this place
[983.3s] just before the general conference
[984.9s] session and declare through God's word.
[987.5s] The greatest need of our church is not
[989.8s] who become the general conference
[991.2s] president, who become the pastor, who
[993.7s] become the union director, who become
[995.7s] the division president. Our greatest
[998.0s] need is the Holy Spirit. Will somebody
[1000.6s] not say an amen out there?
[1003.3s] This is our greatest need. For I am not
[1006.6s] ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it
[1010.5s] is
[1012.2s] the power of God.
[1015.8s] So there has been instances from Genesis
[1020.0s] to Revelation of the manifestation of
[1023.3s] the power of God. But the difficulty is
[1027.2s] we have not yet experience it.
[1032.7s] our subject for this morning. Do it
[1035.1s] again.
[1037.0s] Lord,
[1039.0s] hear me. In case you forget the message,
[1041.8s] this what I'm attempting to say. We do
[1044.6s] not need another committee.
[1047.4s] We do not need another con another
[1049.4s] campaign. We need another consecration.
[1053.5s] God's answer to a tired. God's answer to
[1057.8s] a compromise. God's answer to an
[1060.8s] entertainment-driven church is not
[1063.4s] better programs, it's Pentecost. The
[1066.7s] church needs to experience Pentecost.
[1070.2s] One more time, Ellen White says in the
[1072.9s] book Review and Herald, Mark 22, 1887,
[1077.3s] and I quote, "There is nothing that
[1080.1s] Satan fears so much as the people of God
[1083.5s] shall clear the way by removing every
[1086.5s] hindrance so that the Lord can pour out
[1089.1s] his spirit upon a languishing church and
[1092.5s] an impenitent congregation." If Satan
[1095.7s] had his way, there will never be another
[1098.8s] awakening, great or small, to the end of
[1102.7s] time. Hear me. Your church board, God is
[1105.8s] not afraid of it. Your constituency
[1108.5s] meetings, Satan is not afraid of it.
[1111.1s] What Satan is afraid of is sermons like
[1114.2s] this that is going to ask us that our
[1117.0s] elders in their suit and their tie, they
[1120.2s] are good at their work, but they are not
[1122.3s] spiritual. our pastors with our holo
[1125.6s] degrees including our PhDs. The
[1128.7s] difficulty is we don't have the Holy
[1131.0s] Spirit. So the sick cannot be healed.
[1134.3s] The broken cannot be restored. And you
[1137.4s] see we are doing church as if it is one
[1140.8s] of an entertainment issue. Church is a
[1143.7s] spiritual agenda. It is not secular. And
[1147.0s] I reiterate today the greatest need of
[1150.2s] the SCA church. two, one is the Holy
[1153.4s] Spirit, another is money. Somebody
[1156.0s] should say an amen. Amen.
[1159.3s] Why do I say so? We're going to have a
[1161.6s] little Bible study. So, you are going to
[1163.2s] indulge me. You are going to indulge me
[1165.6s] a little. We need what I call the upper
[1169.0s] room experience.
[1171.2s] The upper room wasn't a conference. It
[1174.3s] was a funeral for self. The upper room
[1178.0s] was not a conference. It was a womb of
[1181.3s] fire for the church. Hear me loud. New
[1184.6s] Life Church in Nairobi. We have lost the
[1188.2s] flame but we have kept the form. This is
[1192.2s] the issue. Every Saturday it's like a
[1195.9s] ritual. Spirituality is not necessarily
[1199.3s] ritual. Every Saturday your auditorium
[1203.6s] is filled. You sing the song. You do the
[1207.2s] Sabbath school. You do the children's
[1209.6s] story immediately we close everybody
[1212.6s] will go under the trees there is gisting
[1215.4s] there is conversation we catch up with
[1217.8s] the weak we go but I can guarantee you
[1221.1s] chances are that since the beginning of
[1223.9s] 2025
[1225.4s] someone in this auditorium has not yet
[1228.0s] encountered the power of the Holy Spirit
[1231.4s] yet Sabbath upon Sabbath you are here
[1237.5s] my First thing is
[1241.0s] what do we come to do?
[1245.0s] Why are we obsessed
[1247.6s] about the form of religion but we lack
[1251.8s] the flame of spirituality
[1255.4s] and this is the reason God must do it
[1258.2s] again. He has done it in the past and he
[1261.9s] is going to do it again. And it will
[1264.5s] only take one message, one Bible study,
[1268.2s] one encounter, one word, one one
[1272.5s] revelation and a whole generation will
[1276.1s] be transformed. Take your Bibles. Let's
[1278.9s] go to the book of Acts chapter 2. Let's
[1282.1s] go to the book of Acts chapter 2. Before
[1284.4s] we read that again, let's bow our heads.
[1287.4s] I want the organist to give us the song
[1289.5s] Hover on Me, Holy Spirit. the the
[1292.7s] choristers, can we sing just the first
[1294.4s] stanza and we will offer a brief prayer.
[1297.5s] Let this divine service not be one of
[1300.6s] your divine service and I want you to
[1303.3s] personally speak to God and tell God
[1306.6s] speak to me for I am listening. Can we
[1309.6s] sing that song? Hover on me. You be
[1311.8s] seated there and you are going to lead
[1313.6s] us. Just bow down your head and I want
[1315.6s] the congregation to sing it. A
[1317.3s] disclaimer throughout this session we
[1319.5s] will sing about five song and we will
[1321.4s] pray about three times before the divine
[1323.7s] service is ended. So I want you to get
[1325.4s] used to it.
[1333.1s] [Music]
[1342.3s] Heat. Heat.
[1358.2s] Somebody say, "Feel me now." Feel me
[1361.5s] now. Feel me now.
[1366.3s] Jesus,
[1368.0s] come and fill me now.
[1372.9s] [Music]
[1383.8s] Let's bow our heads as they hum that
[1385.6s] song in one minute. Tell God, "Fill me
[1388.1s] and speak to me." Pray it personally.
[1391.7s] Personally.
[1394.6s] Don't be idle. Whisper that prayer.
[1396.5s] Those of you joining online, pray,
[1398.7s] "Spirit of God, feel me and speak to me.
[1416.2s] Fill me now.
[1419.3s] All the children in the church, bow on
[1421.5s] your heads and pray. Ask the Holy
[1423.5s] Spirit, feel me now.
[1426.4s] Every young person in the church, it's
[1428.6s] not the talking time. It's the divine
[1430.1s] service. So ask God, fill me now.
[1434.2s] Jesus, speak to me.
[1441.4s] Father in heaven, in the next moment,
[1444.1s] speak to us clearly. For we have asked
[1446.6s] in Jesus's name. Amen. A study of Acts
[1450.5s] chapter 2. I'll make seven points and we
[1453.5s] are done. Acts chapter 2.
[1457.6s] There were seven experiences
[1460.6s] that this sermon is saying God must do
[1463.4s] again. Seven experiences in the book of
[1466.2s] act. Go to Act chapter 2. Let's read
[1468.6s] verse one. And in verse one is the first
[1471.4s] experience. The Bible says when the day
[1474.6s] of Pentecost had come or had fully come,
[1478.9s] they were all with one accord in one
[1482.2s] place. That's the first thing God must
[1484.8s] do.
[1486.6s] He united the room. So when the sermon
[1489.7s] title said, "Do it again." Lord, the
[1492.5s] first thing we want to pray God to do is
[1495.5s] he should unite the room.
[1498.9s] Listen,
[1500.5s] there were all with one accord in one
[1503.0s] place. Unity wasn't just a detailed
[1507.3s] recording of scripture. It was a doorway
[1510.2s] to glory. See the Holy Spirit in Act
[1513.4s] chapter 2 didn't fall on a divided
[1516.2s] house.
[1518.1s] He waited for an agreement.
[1521.6s] Any church divided. I repeat again, we
[1526.2s] are going to St. Louis.
[1528.5s] Conferences upon conferences,
[1531.3s] unions upon unions, division upon
[1534.3s] division. The Holy Spirit only came when
[1538.2s] they were not divided. They were united.
[1542.2s] So hear me. It was an agonizing
[1545.4s] alignment. 120 individuals, a small
[1548.8s] church, but they did something. They
[1552.1s] killed their pride. They crushed their
[1555.5s] personal agendas.
[1557.6s] They embraced one purpose. The only
[1560.6s] reason the Holy Spirit came in Acts two
[1563.8s] was this was the word of the disciples.
[1566.9s] We want you Lord. Whatever it cost, we
[1571.2s] want you. If it's because of my pride,
[1574.2s] pride, go away. If it's because of my
[1577.3s] self ambition, go away. If it's because
[1580.7s] of my canality, go away. Hear me. God
[1585.6s] delays his power until his people kill
[1590.2s] their pettiness.
[1592.9s] The pettiness between generations.
[1596.3s] The pettiness between the rivalry
[1600.1s] between pastors and leaders.
[1603.1s] The petty silence among us with our
[1606.0s] hidden sins.
[1609.4s] The petty comparison between worshippers
[1613.0s] day and night.
[1615.3s] The petty prejudice in this peel and in
[1618.8s] this auditorium. The petty pride that
[1622.2s] blocks tears and the altar. The Holy
[1625.3s] Spirit can never come unless the
[1628.6s] pettiness in the church is taken away.
[1632.8s] One place without one accord is no
[1636.6s] power, no fire, no move of God. We can
[1640.9s] be gathered in one place but if we are
[1643.4s] not in one accord, the Holy Spirit will
[1646.0s] not be there. So St. Louis 2025
[1650.0s] 62nd general conference session we can
[1652.7s] be gathered in one auditorium one
[1655.2s] stadium one place one hotel one himbook
[1659.7s] one Bible but if we are not in one
[1662.2s] accord will never send the Holy Spirit
[1665.1s] somebody say an amen out there when the
[1668.1s] day of Pentecost had fully come they
[1670.8s] were all with one accord in one place
[1675.2s] hear
[1678.6s] In my mind,
[1681.8s] I will say this is my prayer. If I am to
[1687.0s] re reiterate Pentecost,
[1690.5s] Lord, tear down our clicks,
[1694.5s] tear down our denominational egos, tear
[1698.8s] down the suspicions,
[1701.2s] tear down the rivalries,
[1703.9s] bring unity again, not the kind we paint
[1707.8s] on the flyer, but the kind forge in the
[1711.0s] upper room intercession. a church of
[1713.5s] 3,000. I can guarantee you there will be
[1716.0s] a lot of division here at New Life. The
[1718.7s] Holy Spirit will not come in this
[1721.0s] church. You will have worship every
[1723.6s] Saturday. Nothing will get changed. How
[1726.3s] can the Holy Spirit come? We must not
[1729.0s] just be in one place. We must be in one
[1732.2s] accord. Somebody say an amen out there.
[1735.4s] He united the room. May God unite the
[1739.8s] rooms in which we find ourselves today.
[1742.6s] Experience number two. They said, "And
[1745.1s] suddenly,
[1747.3s] there came a sound from heaven as of a
[1750.6s] rushing mighting wind, and it filled the
[1753.5s] whole house where they were sitting." My
[1756.2s] focus is, "And suddenly
[1760.0s] came a sound from heaven as of a rushing
[1763.2s] might." Hear me. The second thing God
[1766.0s] must do again is not just to unite the
[1768.9s] room. He He shook the atmosphere.
[1773.2s] God must do it again. The atmosphere
[1776.9s] must be shaken in Kenya. Nairobi must be
[1780.5s] shaken again. Africa must be shaken
[1783.1s] again before revival
[1786.2s] enters the heart. It rattles the
[1788.7s] airspace.
[1790.3s] You check it throughout scripture.
[1792.7s] Whenever God want to send a revival, he
[1795.6s] rattles the airspace this morning or
[1799.2s] this afternoon under the authority of
[1801.6s] God's word. We pray that our comfort
[1804.3s] zones must be rattled. We pray that our
[1807.9s] hidden sins must be rattled. We pray
[1811.2s] that our shallow worship must be
[1813.6s] rattled. We pray that our divided heart
[1817.0s] must be rattled. We pray that our church
[1820.5s] must be rattled before the Holy Spirit
[1823.8s] come. There must be a shaking. The Bible
[1826.7s] says God shook the atmosphere. And it
[1831.0s] must happen one more time. Before the
[1834.2s] fire came, the sound came. Before the
[1837.9s] feeling came, the shaking came. And
[1841.2s] suddenly there came a sound from heaven
[1844.8s] as of a rushing mighty wind. and it
[1847.5s] filled the whole place. Hear me. Revival
[1851.0s] didn't begin with speaking in tongues.
[1854.0s] It began with turbulence.
[1856.6s] God altered the atmosphere and the
[1859.5s] soundscape before touching the souls. If
[1863.4s] there is no disturbance, maybe there is
[1866.2s] no divine presence. And the question we
[1868.3s] want to ask today is are you available
[1871.5s] as a vessel or you are a decorated vase
[1875.2s] attractive but you are very empty with
[1877.8s] the lipstick and the nice dressing and
[1880.3s] the nice hair and the beautiful soul but
[1883.2s] empty vessels. Satan is not afraid of
[1886.1s] us. Demons are not afraid of us. The
[1888.7s] world is not afraid of us. We sing lift
[1891.6s] up the trumpet but nothing is lifted.
[1894.0s] Why? Our church has become a formality.
[1897.4s] You can be in the house and you can
[1899.4s] predict what is going to happen
[1901.4s] throughout the service. If I dare
[1904.0s] throughout the year when it is PCM week,
[1906.4s] we know what to expect. Women's week, we
[1908.7s] know what to expect. Youth week, we know
[1910.9s] what to expect. Our church members will
[1913.4s] not wake up and say, "Lord, I am going
[1916.2s] to your house. I need an experience. I
[1919.2s] need your presence." No. Goa, no better
[1922.8s] music. is more of the same.
[1927.0s] We we it's it's a routine
[1930.6s] and everybody's satisfied and nobody
[1933.4s] want to say we are deceiving ourselves.
[1937.3s] It is not a secular place. It's a
[1940.3s] spiritual place. If you you were to be
[1943.4s] singing, well, I would have asked us to
[1944.9s] sing the song, oh for that flame of
[1947.6s] living fire.
[1949.6s] Hear me loud. God must do it again.
[1954.2s] What must he do? He needs to unite the
[1957.3s] room again. What must he do? He needs to
[1960.7s] shake the atmosphere again.
[1963.7s] What must he do? Go to the third
[1965.7s] experience. Act chapter 2, jump to verse
[1968.6s] number four. Do it again, Lord. What
[1971.7s] must he do? And they were all filled
[1975.4s] with the Holy Spirit. And they began to
[1978.3s] speak with other tongues as the spirit
[1980.0s] gave them utterance. The third thing God
[1982.9s] must do aside uniting the room,
[1987.0s] aside shaking the atmosphere,
[1990.2s] what he did at Pentecost was that he
[1992.4s] filled vessels. Not just the room.
[1996.7s] God filled vessels. The room got noisy,
[2000.9s] but the people got filled. Amen. We come
[2003.4s] to church, we go, the sound system is
[2006.7s] loud, the live stream is on, but people
[2010.7s] come and they go just as they came. No
[2014.0s] power, no fire, no presence, no
[2018.7s] anointing. Satan is not terrified. He
[2022.2s] loves us this way. We have itinerarized
[2025.1s] every item. No space for the Holy
[2027.8s] Spirit. The question is, when was the
[2030.2s] last time you were filled?
[2034.4s] When was the last time the Holy Spirit
[2037.3s] filled the vessels? He did not just
[2040.1s] filled the room, the individuals were
[2042.6s] filled. Hear me loud. Until
[2047.2s] we expose the idols we have hidden in
[2050.6s] our heart, we cannot be filled.
[2053.9s] Until
[2055.4s] we confront the fears that keeps us from
[2058.6s] full surrender, we cannot be filled.
[2062.2s] Until we break our need for control, we
[2065.9s] want to control everything, including
[2067.8s] God.
[2070.3s] Until we let go, we cannot be filled
[2074.6s] until we dislod the unforgiveness that
[2078.7s] crosses the lead for the Holy Spirit's
[2081.2s] outpouring. We cannot be filled until we
[2085.4s] awaken the pacificity of lukewarmness in
[2089.4s] the loudation church. We cannot be
[2092.0s] filled. We have an atmosphere of
[2094.3s] revival. But we are not un we are not
[2097.2s] changed. God will bypass. He will come
[2100.3s] like a wind, power, fire or a still
[2103.7s] small voice. Nothing get done. Some of
[2106.6s] us we know we are not saved. We know we
[2109.4s] on the path to hell. Do you know the
[2111.0s] reason why we have never experienced the
[2113.2s] Holy Spirit? We don't even know what it
[2115.7s] is like to be filled and moved by the
[2119.1s] Holy Spirit. Our children don't know
[2122.5s] what is the Holy Spirit. They have not
[2124.6s] encountered him. They have not
[2126.5s] experienced him. Samuel was in the
[2129.3s] temple. He was in the temple. And when
[2133.1s] Eli could not understand, the boy went
[2136.6s] and said, "You are calling me." He said,
[2139.3s] "No, I did not." 12 years, three times
[2144.4s] the the man of God perceive a
[2147.1s] 12-year-old boy is been called by God.
[2149.8s] And he said, "The next time you hear the
[2152.1s] voice, you tell him, master, speak for
[2155.8s] your servant, hear it." God cannot speak
[2158.1s] to your innocent children. You know the
[2160.6s] reason why whilst they were being
[2162.7s] brought up, they don't know what it is
[2164.5s] to be filled with the Holy Spirit. They
[2167.1s] are on Tik Tok. They know all the musics
[2169.8s] that are worldly, but they don't know
[2172.6s] the part to be filled by the Holy
[2175.6s] Spirit.
[2178.2s] Ours is becoming an embarrassment.
[2182.2s] God,
[2184.5s] he filled the vessels,
[2187.0s] not just the room. God fills those who
[2190.1s] are available. He doesn't fill those who
[2192.4s] are talented.
[2194.1s] Anybody, regardless of your status,
[2197.2s] regardless of your educational
[2198.6s] background, regardless of your gender,
[2201.3s] anybody genuinely in search of the
[2205.4s] infilling power of the Holy Spirit, God
[2208.6s] will fill the person.
[2212.1s] But typically,
[2213.9s] I've been born and bread in this church.
[2216.4s] Even as you speak right now, some people
[2218.0s] are angry. Who does he think he is? Go
[2220.1s] to hell.
[2222.4s] Let me say it one more time. What is he
[2225.2s] talking about? Go to hell. Now, we even
[2228.2s] have the audacity to control and remote
[2231.4s] the Holy Spirit. Because we feel, we sit
[2234.8s] in the seat of the Holy Spirit. When God
[2237.2s] wants to rebuke us, we say, "Who are you
[2238.9s] to rebuke me? Who do you think you are?"
[2241.8s] This morning, God declares here, not
[2244.6s] just to the church here at Nairobi, to
[2247.1s] the 7th Adventist Church worldwide,
[2249.1s] don't gather at St. Louis without the
[2252.0s] power of the Holy Spirit. God is not
[2254.6s] interested in your report that are being
[2257.0s] done so that some people will be elected
[2259.4s] again into power. God is looking for
[2262.4s] real brokenness, real anointing, real
[2266.2s] honesty. Use me. We say we are in the
[2269.7s] last days. We can't see the signs of the
[2272.4s] last days. Were we not told in those
[2274.3s] days he poured the spirit on all flesh?
[2277.4s] Are we not part of the all flesh? So
[2279.5s] where is the spirit?
[2281.7s] Where is the spirit?
[2284.2s] I I I wish the hymn writer says, "Hover
[2289.0s] on me, Holy Spirit. Bathe my trembling
[2292.5s] heart and brow. Fill me with a hallowed
[2296.0s] present. Come, oh come and fill me now.
[2301.1s] And the writer says, fill me now. It's a
[2304.7s] desperation. Fill me now, Jesus. You
[2308.4s] come now and fill me now. Fill me with
[2311.4s] thy hallowed presence. Come, oh come and
[2315.8s] fill me now. The second stanza says,
[2318.3s] "Thou can feel, gracious spirit, though
[2322.7s] I cannot tell thee how, but I need thee,
[2327.4s] greatly need thee, come,
[2331.3s] oh come and fill me now." But our
[2334.8s] difficulty is we are okay without the
[2337.6s] Holy Spirit.
[2340.1s] When was the last time you were going to
[2342.9s] travel? SDS are so mechanical
[2347.2s] and the Holy Spirit whispered to you
[2349.9s] don't go. Paul was going to preach and
[2353.2s] the Bible said the spirit of Jesus
[2355.0s] Christ told him you are not going to
[2356.6s] preach. He went
[2360.2s] the Holy Spirit you are not going to
[2361.8s] preach and when he went to lie down then
[2364.1s] he was called a man from Macedonia was
[2366.9s] begging Paul you are needed in
[2369.4s] Macedonia. I ask a question. When was
[2372.2s] the last time the Holy Spirit personally
[2375.5s] communicated with you? 30 years of being
[2378.2s] SDA. Mm- 25 years of being SDA po 10
[2383.2s] years of being 7day Adventist. No show.
[2386.2s] And you wear your suit, you dress every
[2388.9s] day, you don't feel the step. Lord,
[2391.9s] where is that spirit who dwells in
[2394.9s] Abraham and where where is that spirit?
[2398.9s] But we are very okay. Hear me. The Holy
[2402.1s] Spirit in act two, he did the third
[2404.6s] thing. He filled vessels, not just the
[2407.9s] rooms. I pray today in the name of
[2411.7s] Jesus, may this room just not be filled.
[2415.6s] May vessels as willing be filled in the
[2419.3s] name of Jesus.
[2421.8s] It is those who need it. I'm going to
[2423.7s] give you some quote of Len why. You can
[2426.2s] have an atmosphere of revival, but you
[2429.4s] can leave and change.
[2431.8s] Camp meetings upon camp meetings. $300
[2435.0s] to $400,000 is being spent. But the
[2438.2s] question is, when last did you receive
[2440.0s] the Holy Spirit at our camp meetings?
[2443.8s] He didn't fill the building. He filled
[2446.3s] the bodies. My prayer is Lord fill this
[2450.5s] generation again
[2453.0s] not just with hype but with holiness
[2457.0s] not just with excitement but with
[2459.5s] evidence.
[2463.9s] Lord
[2465.5s] do it again.
[2468.4s] Unite the rooms again.
[2471.2s] Shake the atmosphere again. Filled
[2474.3s] vessels again. And that takes me to the
[2477.4s] second or the fourth experience. Go to
[2479.8s] Acts chapter 2.
[2482.9s] Go to verse number two.
[2485.5s] And they were all filled
[2488.6s] with the Holy Spirit. That's not my
[2491.3s] point. And began to speak with other
[2494.7s] tongues. My focus is and began to speak
[2497.6s] with other tongues as the spirit gave
[2500.9s] them utterance.
[2504.1s] What is the fourth thing God did and we
[2506.8s] want him to do again? He gave them a
[2508.9s] voice.
[2511.3s] He didn't just feel power. They didn't
[2514.6s] just feel the power. They found their
[2518.2s] voices.
[2520.2s] They didn't just feel it's not just a
[2522.8s] feeling. They found their voices.
[2526.7s] They didn't just feel a power. One more
[2529.8s] time. They found their voices. The
[2533.4s] spirit didn't just fall to impress us.
[2536.1s] He fell to ignite them.
[2539.2s] So we must find our voice in the
[2542.6s] culture. If the Holy Spirit descend,
[2546.0s] nobody will tell the Gen Z's they need
[2548.5s] to find their voice as Christian. They
[2550.4s] will be unashamedly proud. I am a
[2553.7s] Christian in the universities. Our girls
[2556.4s] will not be doing hookup whilst in
[2558.4s] school and when they come up they dress
[2560.1s] and come to church. Our girls will not
[2562.3s] be doing sugar datism. Our boys will not
[2565.4s] be involved in oultism. Our children
[2568.2s] will not be engaged sabbat by this time.
[2570.7s] Some have locked their doors and they
[2572.7s] masturbate themselves to death. Do you
[2574.8s] know the reason? The presence of the
[2576.7s] Holy Spirit will give you a voice in the
[2578.9s] culture. the culture that is pushing the
[2582.3s] the current regime and everybody in your
[2584.5s] country since last year I came h Jenz's
[2587.0s] jenz's I charge the genz's find your
[2590.7s] voice in Christ too it's not enough to
[2593.6s] be on the street it is also enough in
[2596.5s] the power and the anointing of the holy
[2598.9s] spirit the jenzes in our church find
[2602.0s] your voice in this culture we must find
[2604.8s] our voice in the prayer room jenz's are
[2608.0s] not praying but They tweets, they
[2610.6s] retweets and they go and create nude
[2614.1s] content for Instagram, for Tik Tok and
[2617.8s] for social media. We must find our voice
[2621.2s] in the prayer room. We pray. We pray.
[2624.8s] Young boys and girls, go and check the
[2627.4s] Mmons. Mmon church, one young person
[2630.3s] brings 18 people to Jesus. SDA church
[2633.0s] worldwide, one 18 to 19 SDAs bring one
[2637.4s] souls to Christ.
[2640.1s] Something is fundamentally wrong. Nobody
[2643.7s] can say it. The disciples, what did God
[2646.2s] do for them? When the Holy Spirit came,
[2649.2s] he gave them a voice. Where is our voice
[2652.8s] in this culture? Where is our voice in
[2656.3s] the prayer room? Where is our voice in
[2659.3s] the pulpit? Where is our voice in the
[2662.5s] street? We must find our voice in our
[2665.8s] generation.
[2667.5s] They didn't just feel the power. They
[2670.2s] found their voice. Before Pentecost,
[2674.9s] they were whispering
[2677.0s] behind closed doors. They were afraid.
[2679.3s] Read Acts chapter one. After Pentecost,
[2682.9s] they shouted to the world in languages
[2685.6s] they never learn. And the Bible says,
[2688.2s] "And the Holy Spirit gave them
[2690.7s] utterances."
[2692.3s] If your fire doesn't burn into boldness,
[2696.2s] it counterfeits.
[2698.6s] When the Holy Spirit is there, it is
[2700.8s] there. I want us to listen. When we are
[2703.0s] talking about find our voices, ladies
[2705.0s] and gentlemen, in the boardroom, the SGA
[2707.8s] manager, God has lifted you. You are
[2709.6s] from a village. God has lifted you. He
[2712.2s] has exalted you. Your position is not
[2714.5s] been used to advance the kingdom. Yet
[2716.5s] you dress and dress and pack your car
[2718.8s] and show up in church. You have arrived.
[2721.4s] God says to the SDA elders, leaders,
[2724.7s] women, professional, he has elevated you
[2727.4s] in the boardroom. Find your voice in the
[2729.8s] boardroom. When everybody's corrupt, you
[2732.7s] will say, uh, the greatest want of the
[2734.9s] world is the want of men. Men who will
[2737.3s] not be bought or sold, men who in their
[2739.6s] in soul are true and honest, men whose
[2741.9s] consciences are true to duty at the
[2743.8s] needle to the pole, men who will stand
[2746.2s] for the right though the heavens fall.
[2748.4s] That is a voice you are found. When you
[2750.4s] are a manager, you don't employ people
[2752.3s] because of pelvic activities. You employ
[2754.6s] them basis on on merits. It's not
[2757.3s] because of tribe. It's not because of
[2759.5s] ethnicity. Find your voice. And when you
[2763.3s] find your voice in the boardroom, in the
[2765.7s] classroom, on the street, wherever you
[2768.1s] find yourself, the statement of this
[2769.9s] king becomes true. Lift up the trumpet
[2772.6s] and loud let it ring. Jesus is coming
[2775.5s] again. Sher up pilgrims be joyful and
[2779.0s] sing Jesus is coming again. The second
[2781.7s] stanza say echo it hilltops proclaim it
[2785.0s] ye plains Jesus is coming again. Coming
[2788.6s] in glory the lamb that was slain. Jesus
[2792.2s] is coming again. The test standard says
[2794.7s] heavens of earth
[2796.8s] the foundry throne. Jesus is coming
[2799.4s] again. Tempest and whirlwind. The anthem
[2802.6s] prolonged Jesus is coming again. Coming
[2805.7s] again. Coming again. Jesus is coming
[2809.0s] again. By that we find our voice.
[2812.5s] Nations are angry. By this we do know.
[2816.4s] Be it in Iran or be it in Israel, be it
[2820.6s] in Russia or be it in Ukraine, be it in
[2824.1s] South Sudan, nations are angry. By this
[2828.2s] we do know Jesus is coming again.
[2832.0s] Knowledge increase. AI is here with us.
[2835.6s] Knowledge men are running to and fro.
[2839.0s] Jesus is coming again. New life church.
[2842.1s] Find your voice. Each one bring one.
[2846.4s] It's not sloganing. Our children like
[2849.7s] the wild dances. They go to the
[2851.9s] universities. How can we lose 50% of our
[2855.2s] children? Which spirit is leading them?
[2858.6s] They can't find their voices in the in
[2861.3s] the house. Fathers don't pray.
[2864.4s] Listen, we memorize the the Sabbath
[2866.8s] school to show off on Sabbath. Sit down
[2869.4s] with your Sabbath school. Your children
[2871.4s] cannot pray. Your wife doesn't know the
[2873.6s] Bible. You can't lead your family and
[2876.0s] you are in your thigh bold thinking you
[2878.6s] are doing something. Sit down. The Holy
[2880.9s] Spirit rebuke all the hypocrisy and the
[2883.4s] duplicity. You don't pray yet you have a
[2885.8s] form of godliness denying the power
[2888.8s] thereof.
[2890.4s] We don't need
[2892.7s] We we we we don't need this in the
[2894.6s] church. We need genuine people. We need
[2897.6s] genuine people. There should be a time
[2900.6s] elders are appointed and they go to see
[2902.7s] the nominating committee. They say the
[2904.6s] place of my spirituality this year I
[2906.8s] can't leave the church.
[2914.6s] I am tired. I am born and bred in this
[2917.8s] church. My prayer is master give us a
[2920.9s] voice again, a voice for campuses, a
[2925.1s] voice for cities, a voice for the
[2927.8s] marketplace, a voice in politics, a
[2930.8s] voice in media, a voice to challenge the
[2933.9s] culture, a bold, uncompromising and
[2937.4s] unashamed voice. We need a voice. And
[2940.8s] the question this morning afternoon is
[2942.9s] who have you refused to reconcile with
[2946.4s] in the name of ministry? Can God trust
[2949.3s] this room to host him?
[2952.3s] Can he give us a voice again?
[2957.1s] God did seven things in Pentecost. He
[2960.5s] united the room. He shook the
[2963.6s] atmosphere. He filled vessels, not just
[2967.1s] rooms. He gave them a voice. And the
[2970.2s] fifth thing he did, why I title it, do
[2973.4s] it again, Lord. Look at verse 14. Acts
[2977.0s] chapter 2 verse14. But Peter
[2981.2s] standing up. Yo, the Bible used but. But
[2986.2s] but is a negative particle. It means it
[2989.1s] negates all what was said. But Peter
[2992.0s] standing up with the 11 raised his voice
[2996.2s] and said to them, "When we find our
[2998.6s] voices collectively, hear me, he turned
[3001.7s] cowards into lions."
[3005.3s] What he did at Pentecost, cowards were
[3008.4s] converted into lions. Peter stood up.
[3012.5s] Peter, the same Peter who denied Jesus
[3016.2s] now declares to the public is the
[3019.8s] Messiah.
[3021.4s] He's risen. He's alive forever more. The
[3025.8s] same Peter, a coward, now he turned into
[3029.5s] a lion.
[3032.0s] Hear me.
[3034.1s] What did Jesus do for Peter to do what
[3037.0s] he did? He can do it again.
[3040.2s] Some of us we have failed many times
[3042.7s] including the preacher. But he can turn
[3045.1s] cowards into lion. How? What did he do?
[3048.8s] He heals the wounds that made us afraid.
[3052.8s] He confronts the lies that keep us
[3055.8s] small. He turns our failures into fire.
[3061.1s] He gives us something worth dying for.
[3064.2s] Some of us don't know what to die for.
[3066.2s] You are not living until you are found
[3069.3s] something not to live for but you are
[3071.7s] ready to die for.
[3074.2s] He makes us unrecognizable
[3078.2s] to the enemy. The songwriter says stand
[3081.5s] up. Stand up for Jesus. Can we sing that
[3085.6s] one? I didn't like the way you you
[3087.6s] caught the first song. Can you do better
[3089.4s] now? 618. Can we stand on our feet?
[3092.6s] We're going to sing. I want this room to
[3094.6s] sing. Everybody projected for us all the
[3097.4s] stanzas. Stand up. Stand up for Jesus.
[3100.5s] In a culture that disgraces Jesus. God
[3103.7s] says, "I need a group that will stand
[3106.1s] up." We are singing all the stanzas. All
[3109.0s] the stanzas. If you're a mother, a
[3111.1s] father, you are close by your children.
[3112.9s] Just hold their hands and let them sing
[3115.0s] it. It will stay in their memory. Once
[3117.2s] upon a time, it was this West African
[3120.0s] loud preacher who came here and we sang
[3122.8s] that song. Stand up. Stand up for Jesus.
[3125.8s] We are singing all the stanzas song and
[3129.3s] I want to hear Kenya sing. I don't care
[3131.1s] if you sing it in Kiswahi. I don't care.
[3133.0s] All I care is sing it. Just sing that
[3135.0s] song. The fourth stanza will be done in
[3137.0s] unison. We'll transpose over the third
[3139.0s] st. No, I want the whole church to sing
[3140.6s] it all together. Everybody to sing it
[3143.0s] all together. Yes. All right.
[3146.2s] 618. If you are watching online, open
[3149.8s] your hbook and join us. Sing.
[3154.1s] Comes to life.
[3160.2s] Lift up your voice.
[3164.3s] I can hear you. I can hear you.
[3168.5s] [Applause]
[3169.9s] [Music]
[3174.7s] Victory
[3178.8s] his army. He shall live
[3182.8s] till every f is vanquished. Every Christ
[3187.4s] is
[3189.9s] Christ.
[3192.4s] Stand up. Stand up.
[3194.8s] [Music]
[3197.8s] The trumpet calls. I am looking for men
[3201.9s] who will stand with me to the mighty God
[3207.3s] in this glorious day glorious day
[3212.8s] now
[3214.3s] [Music]
[3216.8s] against
[3220.2s] [Music]
[3221.4s] let courage rise with danger
[3225.3s] with danger
[3228.5s] we sing the
[3232.4s] Send us
[3235.3s] [Applause]
[3238.2s] it is strength alone. Don't trust
[3241.0s] anything
[3242.9s] the arm of flesh into failure. Not your
[3246.6s] certificate,
[3248.2s] not your power.
[3250.7s] [Music]
[3253.4s] God
[3256.6s] and watching us to pray
[3263.9s] for danger
[3266.6s] in
[3270.3s] the last
[3272.3s] [Music]
[3281.9s] The noise of battle. The battle against
[3286.0s] sin, battle against the
[3291.8s] overall
[3301.0s] shall be.
[3304.3s] Be the king of all glory
[3309.8s] shall bring it.
[3313.5s] To him the overcome.
[3316.7s] To him the to
[3321.0s] come
[3323.0s] [Music]
[3325.4s] of life shall be.
[3330.6s] Be with the king of glory.
[3343.8s] You can be seated. Thank you. Be seated
[3346.0s] in the presence of God. Hear me loud.
[3351.1s] Hear me clear.
[3353.5s] One touch from the spirit reverse
[3356.3s] Peter's worst failure.
[3359.4s] a reminder to how we forever castigate
[3364.7s] those who have fallen.
[3368.4s] Some of us have become spiritual
[3369.8s] adjudicators.
[3372.1s] He's a sinner. She's a sinner.
[3375.9s] Peter denied the Lord. He apostasized.
[3379.5s] He said, "I renounce my faith."
[3384.1s] But after few days, this same Peter
[3388.1s] touched by the spirit,
[3391.0s] a revival ensued.
[3393.4s] He stood in Pentecost.
[3396.2s] Hear me, God's fire turns your shame
[3400.9s] into a sermon.
[3403.2s] And he's willing to do it today.
[3406.1s] My prayer is Lord raise men and women on
[3410.7s] our campuses, in our churches who were
[3413.3s] formerly addicted,
[3415.4s] who were formerally confused, who were
[3418.2s] formerly broken and now they roar for
[3422.5s] the kingdom. Don't write that girl off
[3425.8s] because today she's a lesbian.
[3428.9s] Don't Don't run that elder down because
[3431.8s] today he's struggling with a weakness.
[3435.8s] A Peter yesterday,
[3438.8s] a rejector of Christ 40 days time,
[3443.8s] an evangelist
[3445.6s] who brought 3,000.
[3447.8s] The whole church sat and they said,
[3450.9s] "Brethren, we knew the weaknesses of
[3453.7s] Peter, but Peter loves the Lord.
[3457.2s] Peter loves the Lord. And because of the
[3459.9s] gift the Lord has given Peter, let Peter
[3462.6s] stand in ourstead.
[3465.4s] Those of us who have not fallen,
[3468.0s] we know God can still use a Peter and
[3471.6s] Peter proclaim a rebuke to our church.
[3476.5s] How we treat the backs leading,
[3479.8s] how we treat the young people who have
[3481.9s] failed in their certain years, elders,
[3485.7s] pastors. Let's remember when the Holy
[3489.0s] Spirit touched Peter, one touch, his
[3492.7s] entire failure was reversed. The Holy
[3496.3s] Spirit did seven things. Read it with
[3499.1s] me. Number one, what did he do? He
[3501.6s] united the room. Number two, what did he
[3504.9s] do? He shook the atmosphere. Number
[3508.1s] three, what did the Holy Spirit do? He
[3510.0s] filled vessels, not just the rooms.
[3513.0s] Number four, what did the Holy Spirit
[3514.4s] do? He gave them a voice. Number five,
[3517.4s] what did the Holy Spirit do? He turned
[3519.5s] cowards into lions. What else did he do?
[3522.8s] Look at verse six.
[3525.7s] And when this sound occurred, the
[3528.2s] multitude came together and were
[3530.6s] confused because everyone heard them
[3533.6s] speak in his own language. This is the
[3536.7s] case. He drew crowds without marketing.
[3542.0s] The Holy Spirit drew crowds
[3546.6s] without marketing. And the question I
[3548.8s] asked whilst I was studying this is how
[3550.9s] did the Holy Spirit do it? And the Holy
[3553.8s] Spirit reminded me I chose the right
[3556.6s] season in the right venue because the
[3559.4s] Holy Spirit knew at that time it will
[3561.8s] happen. People will be gathered from all
[3563.5s] over the world. So the Holy Spirit you
[3566.1s] see sometimes we are not even strategic.
[3568.7s] We are going to do crusade. Only God can
[3571.0s] tell who spirit is leading us.
[3574.4s] Foolish decisions,
[3577.0s] backward decisions. But the Holy Spirit
[3579.5s] chose the right venue, the right season.
[3586.2s] How I pray at checkboard meetings, at
[3589.4s] constituency meetings, at sessions, we
[3592.6s] will choose the right season and the
[3595.3s] right venue. The university students
[3597.3s] here, hear me. You can't do evangelism
[3599.8s] on campus and be doing the same thing
[3602.4s] that the local churches have been doing.
[3604.8s] This backward thing we have done for
[3606.9s] over 160 years and we are still
[3609.6s] struggling. No. When the Holy Spirit was
[3612.6s] there, if you want the Holy Spirit to
[3614.7s] draw the crowds and without the
[3617.6s] marketing, number one, let's choose the
[3620.1s] right season. Let's choose the right
[3622.3s] venue. Let's choose the right speakers.
[3625.2s] Let's choose the right personnel. What
[3627.4s] else did the Holy Spirit do? He made
[3630.9s] holiness unmistakable.
[3634.3s] The Holy Spirit made their holiness
[3636.6s] noticeable.
[3638.7s] Until our holiness is noticeable, we
[3642.2s] will scream each one bring one
[3646.4s] mission possible.
[3648.6s] Ay, all this. No. Aside the right
[3652.8s] season, the right venue, the Holy Spirit
[3656.2s] must make our holiness unmistakable.
[3660.0s] The Holy Spirit is by hosting glory. The
[3663.8s] Holy Spirit was not involved in
[3665.1s] gimmicks. He was hosting glory. The
[3668.9s] glory of the Lord was at Pentecost. So
[3672.3s] the crowds were attracted to the Holy
[3675.0s] Spirit. our pastors, our elders
[3679.3s] who is getting attracted. We spend a lot
[3681.8s] of time to do the theory of the
[3684.0s] preaching and few time is spent on our
[3687.4s] knees. So there is no glory. When we
[3690.2s] enter the evangelistic meetings, there
[3692.6s] are no signs. There are no wonders.
[3695.2s] Nobody's afraid. Presence of God is not
[3697.7s] there. There is gimmicks.
[3700.2s] Gimmicks. Charcoal and clay gimmicks.
[3704.0s] In the name of medical missionaries,
[3706.6s] gimmicks. I dealt with it this week. Go
[3708.5s] online and check it out. Gimmicks. The
[3711.3s] gimmicks. Your PA system is bad. And you
[3714.0s] have your shrine. You arrange your
[3716.0s] cloth. Green cloth in Kenya. One wood
[3718.4s] here, one wood here, one wood here, one
[3720.0s] here.
[3721.5s] Then you are saying let us pray. The
[3723.4s] Holy Spirit is not even What kind of
[3725.4s] foolishness is this? He's saying I'm not
[3727.4s] interested in this gimmicks.
[3730.6s] I want to host glory.
[3734.0s] The best must be for the Lord. If it
[3737.4s] must be done for God, it must be done
[3739.5s] how well.
[3742.2s] And the Holy Spirit leverage
[3745.4s] their undeniable transformation.
[3748.2s] He their curiosity in their heart. And
[3751.4s] through the fragrance of prayer and
[3753.8s] worship, they could not stand. The Bible
[3756.1s] says they all join constantly in prayer.
[3759.7s] Acts 1:14.
[3762.4s] Take the SDA church worldwide. Prayer
[3765.3s] time in church all the service period
[3767.9s] less than two hours.
[3772.6s] I repeat prayer time. What was the goal
[3776.8s] of today's service? What did we want the
[3779.4s] Lord to do for this service? Nobody
[3782.9s] plans. Choir, musicians, no strategy,
[3786.6s] nothing. Everybody just walk in, they
[3789.0s] sit down and you want God to host what?
[3792.2s] Where is the anointing? You are. We are
[3794.4s] lazy
[3796.1s] to see the presence of God. It doesn't
[3798.2s] come easy. Jesus fasted 40 days.
[3802.3s] You want eat your chapati and your ugali
[3805.5s] with your protruded stomach and you want
[3807.6s] to host with anointing. It is not there.
[3815.0s] No prayer, no worship
[3818.7s] and we need to spend time. So when we
[3820.6s] come to church because from our various
[3822.4s] homes there is no fire. So you come to
[3825.0s] church you will need to you need to
[3827.4s] scream and scream before they started
[3829.3s] catch a little fire. After one week he's
[3831.6s] dead again. The Sabbath becomes like a
[3833.6s] cocaine drug. I come here to get some
[3835.8s] for the week. Everybody comes to get
[3837.2s] some. No fire.
[3843.9s] The Holy Spirit, he drew crowds
[3847.9s] without marketing.
[3850.4s] What must we do before crowds will fill
[3855.0s] our spaces without marketing? Our egos
[3858.5s] must bow.
[3860.4s] Our programs must bow. Our celebrity
[3864.0s] cult must bow. The pastors we have made
[3866.9s] ourselves superstars.
[3870.5s] Our comfort zones must pow. Our fear of
[3874.8s] offending people must pow. People is
[3877.2s] speaking I don't want I want to be in
[3879.3s] new life. Don't invite me again. I don't
[3882.1s] care.
[3884.4s] I will go and sleep with my wife.
[3887.9s] She's a young woman. You can take your
[3890.2s] church and go. I'm not here to speak to
[3892.6s] make you please. I have only one
[3894.3s] assignment to honor God. Period. I don't
[3898.7s] want to be popular. I want to be
[3900.5s] faithful.
[3902.5s] I can go to sleep before Jesus can bring
[3906.2s] crowds
[3907.8s] without marketing.
[3910.2s] We need to bow one more time. Our egos
[3914.1s] must bow. One more time. Our programs
[3917.0s] committee cannot even tell what God is
[3919.0s] saying for this hour. Nobody has the ear
[3921.4s] to know what God is saying. Our
[3923.8s] celebrity culture must bow. Our comfort
[3927.8s] must bow. Our fears of offending
[3931.0s] conference GC leaders or division
[3933.3s] leaders must pow or the political class
[3936.3s] it must bow.
[3938.4s] The songwriter in SA 8570 says not I but
[3943.0s] Christ be honored love and exalted. Not
[3946.7s] I but Christ be seen be known and be
[3951.1s] heard. Not I but Christ in every look
[3955.0s] and action. Not I but cries in every
[3959.4s] thought and word for God to draw crowds
[3962.5s] without flyers without hashtag without
[3965.2s] hide. Something in ours must fall.
[3969.2s] I pray today Lord in me let my ego fall.
[3973.6s] Lord in me let my programs bow. Lord in
[3977.4s] me let my celebrity and nature bow. Lord
[3981.2s] in me let my comfort bow. Lord in me let
[3984.7s] my fear bow.
[3987.2s] God doesn't need hashtags when he finds
[3991.0s] holiness.
[3992.5s] Heaven advertised Pentecost because the
[3995.1s] people hosted him in secret.
[3999.0s] If the Holy Spirit is truly present,
[4002.5s] people will find it even without flies.
[4007.4s] And my prayer is do it again Lord.
[4010.5s] Draw students,
[4012.3s] draw professors and strangers by your
[4016.1s] presence. Let revival go viral.
[4020.0s] Not digitally but divinely.
[4023.5s] We are so obsessed about digitization
[4026.8s] and we have lost track of the most
[4028.6s] important things.
[4031.6s] Are we trying to draw crowds to empty
[4034.4s] rooms or rooms full of him?
[4039.8s] Lord, do it again.
[4042.2s] He united the atmosphere.
[4045.0s] He shook He united the room. Shook the
[4047.4s] atmosphere. He filled vessels, not the
[4050.3s] rooms. He gave them a voice. He turned
[4053.6s] cowards into lions. He drew crowds
[4057.3s] without marketing. And the last thing
[4059.9s] the Holy Spirit did is in verse 37. We
[4063.7s] could get 15, but for the sake of time,
[4065.9s] I'll deal with seven. Now when they
[4068.0s] heard this, they were cut to the heart
[4071.4s] and said to Peter and the rest of the
[4073.8s] apostles, "Men and brethren, what shall
[4077.4s] we do?"
[4079.4s] The seventh thing the Holy Spirit did,
[4081.2s] which is the last for this session, he
[4083.8s] cut hearts, not just impress minds.
[4088.5s] Don't tell me it was a good sermon. Let
[4090.7s] it cut hearts.
[4093.0s] Who cares about your eloquence? We want
[4096.4s] the anointing that backs the eloquence.
[4099.9s] Real revival doesn't need end. It
[4102.7s] doesn't end in claps. It ends in
[4105.6s] conviction. The goal was not a better
[4109.3s] theology. It was brokenness. Peter
[4112.7s] didn't preach a sweet sermon. He
[4115.7s] preached a sword. The spirit used it to
[4119.0s] pierce the heart. And this is what I
[4121.5s] say. By preaching the word, how did he
[4124.6s] do? Check the text. Peter preached the
[4127.8s] word. The whole sermon you check it.
[4131.6s] Peter used the Old Testament
[4133.6s] extensively. Do you want to see revival?
[4137.0s] Use the Bible.
[4139.1s] All we are saying for almost an hour is
[4141.8s] just eight verses.
[4145.0s] How can he pierce heart by preaching
[4148.3s] what offends before it heals?
[4152.0s] How can the Holy Spirit
[4155.4s] cut hearts not just impress minds? By
[4159.0s] confronting hidden sins, not just
[4161.5s] surface struggles.
[4163.7s] How can the Holy Spirit pierce heart and
[4166.8s] not just impress minds? By awakening
[4169.7s] holy grief, not just emotional tears.
[4173.8s] How can the Holy Spirit pierce heart and
[4176.6s] not just impress mind? By removing the
[4179.7s] idols that dull our conscience. How can
[4183.7s] the Holy Spirit tears heart and not just
[4186.7s] impress minds? By restoring the fire of
[4190.3s] the Lord. The spirit of God doesn't just
[4194.0s] comfort. He confronts.
[4197.0s] He confront our sins. Not just our
[4199.8s] struggles. He confront our silence in
[4203.0s] the face of truth. He confront our
[4205.4s] religious performance. He confronts our
[4208.0s] comfortable compromise. He confronts our
[4211.0s] shallow Christianity. He confronts our
[4213.5s] pride disguised as boldness. He
[4216.2s] confronts our the use of grace as a
[4219.0s] license for sin. He confronts our
[4221.6s] delayed obedience. He confronts our
[4224.2s] private duplicity and hypocrisy. He
[4227.4s] confronts our holiness in the name of
[4230.7s] holiness. The spirit doesn't just
[4234.0s] comfort, it confronts.
[4238.2s] My prayer is do it again. Lord, send
[4242.4s] cutting swords and words that makes us
[4245.8s] weep, that makes us repent, and that
[4249.1s] will make us return. Don't just give us
[4251.7s] songs and sermons. Give us sorrow that
[4255.8s] leads to surrender.
[4258.3s] When was the last time God's word hurt
[4261.7s] you in a way that it later healed you?
[4268.8s] This moment I want to give you some
[4270.7s] quotes of Ellen White but I'm done. God
[4273.5s] knows I preach from his word. If you are
[4277.1s] here you know before God and man they
[4281.9s] are talking about campus ministries
[4284.5s] beyond boundaries.
[4286.6s] No,
[4288.2s] Oper
[4290.2s] Maxwell and the team. It's not eloquent,
[4293.4s] it's anointing.
[4295.4s] Students cannot be on fire without the
[4297.9s] Holy Spirit.
[4299.8s] If you don't have the Holy Spirit, you
[4302.2s] know, and you are not ashamed, but you
[4304.6s] desperately need it. Let me see your
[4306.6s] hand.
[4309.1s] Lift it up. I don't have it. I'm not
[4312.2s] ashamed before a God. Hands down. The
[4315.6s] duplicity will show again. You know you
[4317.6s] don't have it, but you are ashamed to
[4319.8s] say you don't have it. One more time. If
[4323.7s] you are here, you don't you know God is
[4327.2s] your witness. This message is mine. I
[4330.9s] don't have the Holy Spirit and I need
[4333.5s] him now. Lift up your hands.
[4338.6s] Hands up.
[4342.4s] I'll say it one more time. Maybe maybe
[4346.6s] let me quote this. Maybe it will let you
[4349.6s] see the danger of the question I'm
[4351.8s] asking. Ellen White says, "Before you go
[4354.7s] and say that I have backsliden before
[4357.0s] the final visitation of God's judgment
[4359.3s] upon the earth, there will be among the
[4361.7s] people of God among the people of the
[4363.6s] Lord such a revival of primitive
[4365.7s] godliness as has not been been witnessed
[4369.4s] since apostolic times. The spirit and
[4373.0s] power of God will be poured upon his
[4376.2s] children. Great controversy page 4:6
[4378.4s] says, "Now the work will be similar to
[4382.6s] that of the day of Pentecost. As the
[4385.5s] former reign was given in the outpouring
[4388.2s] of the Holy Spirit at the opening of the
[4390.2s] gospel, the cause to cause the upspring
[4393.8s] of the of the precious seed. So the
[4395.9s] latter rain will be given at its close
[4399.4s] for the ripening of the harvest. And the
[4402.5s] question you ask is where are we likely
[4404.6s] to receive this latter rain or this Holy
[4406.6s] Spirit and the rest of it. I have a
[4408.4s] whole presentation on it. Let me just
[4409.8s] give you two in case you think
[4411.7s] gatherings like this must not be
[4413.0s] spiritual. The convocations of the
[4415.5s] church as in camp meetings, the
[4418.2s] assemblies of the home church and all
[4420.9s] occasions where there is personal labor
[4423.4s] for souls are God's appointed
[4426.4s] opportunities
[4428.0s] for giving the early and the latter
[4430.6s] rain. Where can you receive it? During
[4433.8s] divine service, during camp meetings,
[4436.2s] during personal labor this afternoon,
[4439.8s] someone will receive the Holy Spirit.
[4443.4s] If you need it, stand.
[4446.3s] Don't talk, just stand. Those of you
[4448.8s] watching online, if you know you don't
[4451.1s] have the Holy Spirit and you want to
[4453.4s] receive this Holy Spirit, just tie, I
[4457.0s] need the Holy Spirit. One more time. If
[4460.2s] you know you don't have the Holy Spirit
[4463.1s] and you want the Holy Spirit, just tie,
[4466.6s] I need the Holy Spirit. You don't need
[4469.9s] to talk. There is no need for talking.
[4472.5s] We are going to sing one song now as I
[4476.1s] make this call. If you are in this
[4478.4s] place,
[4479.9s] you want to be baptized both by water
[4483.1s] and the Holy Spirit. As I we will be
[4485.8s] singing this song, I want you to give me
[4487.9s] a good song which the congregation can
[4489.7s] sing. Now whether or brother be faithful
[4493.5s] if you know it, we will sing that song.
[4495.8s] If you want to be baptized of water and
[4499.3s] the Holy Spirit, you come right here. I
[4502.0s] will not beg and plead. Will you receive
[4503.9s] the Lord? I won't do that. You want to
[4506.9s] be baptized of water and the Holy
[4509.7s] Spirit. As we sing the song, oh brother,
[4512.6s] be faithful, walk down the aisle.
[4515.1s] Whether you're a university student,
[4517.0s] whether you are a a youth, what
[4519.1s] whichever you are, God has spoken to
[4521.4s] you. You want to give your life to Jesus
[4523.8s] and be baptized. As everybody is
[4526.2s] standing seated, even before we start
[4528.3s] singing, walk and come here right now.
[4530.8s] Nobody will pamper you. Just walk and
[4532.9s] come here. Oh brother, be faithful, my
[4535.7s] dear. Come here.
[4538.2s] I want to be baptized with water and the
[4541.8s] Holy Spirit. As we sing that song and
[4544.6s] everybody will sing that song. I want
[4546.6s] you to just walk and come here. All
[4548.6s] those who want to be baptized, you come.
[4554.9s] God bless you.
[4558.4s] I want to be baptized. Yes. Come
[4561.5s] please. We don't want those who will
[4563.8s] enter water and come out as demons. You
[4566.8s] want to give your life to Jesus
[4569.1s] genuinely and honestly walk and come
[4576.2s] new life. Lift up your voice.
[4579.0s] [Music]
[4581.9s] Who wants to get baptized? Just walk and
[4584.8s] count.
[4589.0s] We're going to stand the first answer
[4590.2s] again. Let's go to the first answer.
[4592.8s] Everybody in the auditorium, lift up
[4594.6s] your voice.
[4598.1s] Come on. I want to be baptized.
[4602.2s] You come here.
[4605.0s] Don't come if you don't mean it. We
[4607.4s] don't need you here if you don't mean
[4609.0s] it. You should only come if you want to
[4612.1s] accept Jesus and be baptized and receive
[4615.1s] the Holy Spirit. Then you come. Oh
[4617.8s] brother, be faithful. Oh brother
[4623.6s] [Music]
[4624.1s] [Applause]
[4627.1s] to him and
[4630.6s] God bless you. God bless you. God bless
[4633.4s] you. I want to give it's not a
[4635.9s] popularity context. We don't want
[4637.6s] numbers. 1 minute. 1 minute. I am tired
[4641.2s] of preaching and then you see I was in
[4643.4s] KC 2007 a group,700.
[4647.4s] No. And it is more of the same. If you
[4649.8s] want to walk and come here, be sure you
[4652.5s] want to give your life to Jesus. Not 99%
[4655.7s] 100%. You want to be baptized not just
[4659.4s] of water. You also want to receive the
[4661.7s] Holy Spirit. You come. If you are here,
[4665.1s] you are backsliding from the Lord. You
[4667.4s] have been living in sin and this morning
[4670.0s] or afternoon the Holy Spirit has
[4671.8s] convicted you. And Ellen White says such
[4674.9s] individuals sometimes will need
[4676.7s] rebaptism.
[4678.2s] Or you have gone to the far country. You
[4681.0s] have been like the lost coin. You are in
[4683.3s] the church but you are lost. Or you are
[4685.4s] like the lost sheep. You are lost and
[4687.9s] you are not aware. Now you are knowing.
[4689.8s] Or you are like the prodigal son. You
[4692.4s] left because you wanted something gaps,
[4694.4s] something better. And the Holy Spirit
[4696.2s] has convicted you. You want to be
[4698.1s] rebaptized and commits to God fulltime,
[4701.8s] not part- time. As we sing that song, oh
[4704.9s] brother, be faithful. Walk down the
[4707.8s] aisle and come. But remember, you are
[4711.0s] doing nobody a favor. You are doing your
[4712.9s] own self a favor. Let's sing that song
[4715.1s] again. Oh brother, be faithful.
[4717.5s] Who wants to come? Just walk and come.
[4721.6s] Oh brother, be faithful.
[4725.5s] I want to give my life to Jesus. I want
[4727.9s] to be baptized or rebaptized. Just walk
[4730.1s] and come.
[4734.3s] [Music]
[4743.8s] Oh brother, be faithful.
[4747.5s] [Music]
[4749.7s] If you are joining online,
[4752.4s] you want to be baptized,
[4754.6s] just add your name or just indicate and
[4758.3s] our communication team will reach out to
[4760.0s] you. Whichever country you are from,
[4762.7s] whichever space you are from, you want
[4765.2s] to be baptized and give yourself to
[4767.4s] Jesus. Not part time, full time,
[4770.1s] indicate it virtually. We'll reach out
[4772.2s] to you.
[4774.9s] [Applause]
[4776.8s] [Music]
[4781.6s] victory
[4786.2s] and
[4788.0s] victory. Lift up your voice. Somebody
[4790.4s] say, "Oh brother, be faithful." Oh
[4792.3s] brother, be faithful.
[4795.9s] [Music]
[4796.6s] [Applause]
[4799.2s] [Music]
[4808.0s] is to
[4810.9s] the joy of the Lord.
[4818.0s] [Music]
[4825.3s] Is there somebody here who want to be
[4827.1s] baptized? Come out. Come out. The Holy
[4830.8s] Spirit is searching. It has arrested
[4833.2s] you. Walk and come out and give your
[4835.9s] life to Jesus. Oh brother, be faithful.
[4840.2s] Be faithful. The proise is true. The
[4844.9s] praise for the faithful and
[4850.5s] toart
[4856.5s] and
[4858.2s] Jesus.
[4860.8s] You know what the voice now? I've made
[4862.2s] two appeals so far. Those who want to
[4864.0s] receive the Holy Spirit, God sees you
[4865.9s] standing. Those who want to get baptized
[4868.4s] and the baptism call is going. The
[4871.5s] receiving of the Holy Spirit is going.
[4873.3s] I'm making the last call.
[4875.8s] If you are here, hear me. The gospel
[4879.9s] needs some intelligent minds. The gospel
[4883.1s] needs the best brains.
[4885.4s] The gospel needs the finest heart. And
[4889.0s] the young people are in the
[4890.0s] universities. I charge this church
[4893.0s] before God at least once a year organize
[4897.8s] a top class intelligent powerful
[4901.9s] spiritfilled crusade on the university
[4905.0s] campus once a year. So in this regard,
[4909.7s] anybody in this place who has a burden,
[4913.4s] I want to support Campus Ministries, not
[4917.4s] with my mouth, with my resources. I want
[4921.1s] you to raise up your hand. It's not for
[4922.7s] everybody. It's just some people.
[4925.8s] Listen, ministering to universities is
[4928.4s] expensive.
[4929.9s] We need certain resources. We need You
[4932.7s] want to support the PCM of your church?
[4936.6s] Look, anytime they are talking about
[4938.6s] ministry to the student, hear me red,
[4941.5s] reduce it a little. This church, hear
[4944.1s] me, the future of your church is in the
[4946.2s] university. Listen, if you invest on
[4949.5s] campus, when they come to Nairobi, they
[4951.8s] will come to your church. Say an amen.
[4955.8s] The next SDA rich men when they come to
[4959.2s] Nairobi, your capital, they will come to
[4961.9s] your church.
[4964.3s] go to the campuses now let the campuses
[4967.4s] know this is their home this is where
[4970.2s] they find solace so I make a special
[4973.4s] appeal if you are here and you don't
[4976.6s] need to be cocky about it you want to
[4979.7s] put your resources
[4982.1s] at campus ministries I want you to come
[4984.5s] right to me here and pray a special
[4986.6s] prayer a certain number and the Holy
[4990.2s] Spirit as God has instructed I will do
[4992.7s] my part and Monday I'll be gone. Is
[4996.0s] there someone in this auditorium who
[4998.2s] want to say God's will based on God's
[5001.0s] word
[5002.8s] this niche ministry that many time
[5005.8s] doesn't have funding here the
[5007.9s] charismatics they are connecting our
[5010.2s] young people they are moving there is no
[5012.8s] resources on campus is there someone
[5015.9s] here I will just do this for 2 minutes
[5018.3s] you want to support campus ministries
[5021.0s] not with any amount as the lord blesses
[5023.8s] you I want you to come here and I'll
[5025.9s] pray a special prayer for you right here
[5029.4s] this place. Not with your mouth, with
[5033.0s] your pocket. Come.
[5035.8s] I want to support campus ministries with
[5038.1s] my resources.
[5040.4s] Please come. This day is the campus
[5043.0s] ministries day. So when they are talking
[5045.1s] about how do we dismantle aphism,
[5048.3s] agnosticism and all this religious
[5050.8s] nuances, the next generation of
[5052.9s] politicians for Nairobi of Kenya who
[5056.7s] will be Adventist, they are in the
[5058.1s] universities. My brother, God bless you.
[5059.8s] God bless you. I want to fund and
[5062.4s] support campus ministries. Please walk
[5064.5s] and come and I'm going to pray that the
[5066.6s] Lord will let you abound and prosper. Is
[5070.6s] there anybody here? I want to fund
[5073.3s] campus ministries and you are online.
[5075.7s] You indicate we reach out to you. This
[5078.3s] church's campus ministries must be the
[5080.7s] model for East Africa. The whole of East
[5083.6s] Africa. They are talking about ministry
[5085.5s] to university student. This should be
[5088.0s] the citadel.
[5089.7s] New life is just someone who wants to
[5092.5s] put their money at where God needs the
[5095.7s] best brains. Come on.
[5100.3s] [Music]
[5112.2s] Let's sing the first answer of stand up
[5113.9s] for Jesus quietly and we are going to
[5115.8s] pray. I I apologize for keeping you a
[5118.3s] little high. Forgive me. My dear sister,
[5120.5s] God bless you. My brother, God bless
[5121.8s] you.
[5123.4s] After this song, we are going to pray
[5125.3s] the closing prayer. Before we sing it in
[5129.1s] the afternoon, I'm going to give a Bible
[5131.4s] study on the Bible's position on money.
[5136.0s] Ellen White's position on money. I said
[5139.7s] two things we need in the last days. The
[5141.5s] Holy Spirit, I preach it. The same power
[5144.4s] and passion. Don't stay under the tree.
[5147.9s] Don't go home and eat ugali and chapati.
[5151.3s] come back and we are going to study for
[5153.8s] one and a half hours for this afternoon.
[5156.5s] Let's sing stand up for Jesus. Hold
[5158.6s] somebody's hand. Hold somebody's hand.
[5161.8s] Just the first stanza. Hold somebody's
[5163.7s] hand.
[5168.5s] God bless your decisions.
[5178.9s] Stand up.
[5180.9s] Come ones
[5185.0s] on the cross.
[5187.9s] Lift up his royal battle
[5191.2s] royal.
[5193.8s] It must not suffer, Lord.
[5197.7s] Lord, lift up your right hand. Come on.
[5201.4s] Unto victory. Just lift up your right
[5203.5s] hand. His army shall he shall till every
[5209.0s] fall is vanquished.
[5212.5s] And Christ is Lord indeed. Christ is
[5217.2s] Lord. Let's sing the last.
[5220.0s] [Music]
[5223.6s] When the world is confused, we stand
[5226.2s] with Jesus.
[5228.4s] This suffering, it will end one day.
[5232.4s] The noise of the next you hear the
[5235.3s] victory song
[5239.9s] to him that overcometh
[5242.7s] that overth.
[5246.6s] All God
[5248.8s] shall be
[5251.4s] here with the king of glory
[5256.6s] shall bring eternal.
[5262.3s] Father in heaven we bless your name in
[5265.5s] this church.
[5268.5s] We want one thing. Do it again.
[5274.1s] What we have read, what we have been
[5276.9s] told in our lifetime,
[5280.5s] do it again.
[5284.6s] You promise in those days you pour your
[5287.3s] spirit on all flesh. Lord, do it again.
[5294.2s] You said in those days we will walk on
[5297.4s] the other scorpions and lions.
[5300.7s] Lord, do it again.
[5304.0s] You said when we cast the demons, they
[5307.0s] will flee. Lord, do it again.
[5312.2s] You said when we preach and we lay hands
[5316.1s] on the sick, the sick will be healed.
[5319.8s] Lord, do it again.
[5323.3s] We pray that in this last days, anyone
[5326.8s] in this auditorium who genuinely desires
[5330.5s] the Holy Spirit, may they receive it one
[5334.1s] by one, family to family, individuals to
[5339.7s] individuals.
[5341.2s] We pray for those who want to use their
[5344.0s] resources to support campus ministries
[5347.3s] in the name of the risen Christ. Lord
[5350.6s] bless the works of their hands. May they
[5353.6s] abound.
[5355.4s] May our students not beg for bread. May
[5358.9s] they not struggle to be taught of God
[5362.4s] when resources are needed. If you are
[5365.1s] looking for people to put it in their
[5366.6s] hands, these ones who are publicly
[5368.6s] declared, Lord, bless them with wealth.
[5372.3s] Bless them with money. Bless them with
[5375.0s] opportunities.
[5376.5s] Open doors for them in a very special
[5379.7s] way. As you bless the church, for them,
[5383.1s] bless them in a special way. They have
[5386.2s] covenanted not with a man but with God.
[5389.4s] May you do for them according to your
[5391.8s] promise. To those who want to be
[5393.9s] baptized. We pray that their baptism
[5397.1s] will not just be baptism of water. May
[5399.8s] they also receive the Holy Spirit.
[5402.4s] what you have done on Pentecost, do it
[5405.5s] again, Lord. Do it with our children,
[5409.2s] Lord. Do it with our young people, Lord.
[5411.7s] Do it with our guests. Lord, do it in
[5414.5s] this church, Lord. Let there be a new
[5416.8s] life. Let this church a new leave. May
[5421.6s] power, may presence, may anointing, may
[5425.9s] signs and wonders, may the spirit of God
[5429.7s] be felt in this place.
[5431.8s] Beginning right now, may we begin to see
[5434.4s] manifestation of a sober congregation.
[5437.6s] May God bless you. May God exalt you.
[5441.3s] May God lift his hand upon you. May this
[5443.8s] Sabbath be a memorable Sabbath for you.
[5446.2s] May you go in the power of God. May your
[5449.0s] life never be the same again. Now unto
[5451.3s] him that is able to keep you from
[5453.7s] falling and to present you faultless
[5456.1s] before his throne with exceeding joy to
[5458.9s] our only wise God, our Savior Jesus
[5461.7s] Christ. To him be glory, to him be
[5464.6s] power, to him be majesty both now and
[5468.4s] forever. In Jesus's name, amen. You can
[5472.6s] be seated.
[5474.4s] God bless