Title: Sermon | "From Disciple To Missionary" | Pr.Gerald Mochoge
Video ID: rvoDykvIaKA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvoDykvIaKA
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Happy Sabbath everyone. Happy Sabbath. Happy. The way the students from Stere have sung, it looks to me that the way you're responding, they have eaten into your voices. Happy Sabbath, church. Happy day. And happy day. Happy Sabbath. I think by and by God is giving us a reason why we will need to put our cathedral here the soonest. All in favor say I. I. All who are praying for it say amen. Amen. We are looking forward to the time the Lord shall bless us with a sanctuary here and we pray to God indeed that it comes to pass the soonest. I am aware that people are praying about it and I'm very optimistic. Now we had requested Elder Kori, thank you very much for making that humble request. We made a request that those who can be touched to move out but I am not seeing those that are coming in and I'm seeing empty chairs in here. So I want to request that still if we have those of our visitors who are out there let them come in. Weti so that they can be comfortable in the sight of God. I want to take this time to welcome everyone of you. My colleague Pastor Elvis is here with us. Pastor Polycap is down at Zimman uh finishing our family life week of prayer. I know that we have stood again and again, but you know the drill by now. I would like to request us to be upstanding as we invite the presence of the Holy Spirit here with us. You know the drill by now. Those of you are members of Fifth Gong Avenue, I would like you to be upstanding kindly. Every one of us, let's all be upstanding. The candidates, please for baptism, please stand. This is a very high Sabbath for us today. And I want to believe that God will be gracious to us even as we have these ones who are going to be baptized that we will also have another team. Church members, allow me to say these words. Today when you look into your internet or you go to the world population website, we have about 250 children being born every minute. How many did I say? You did. You didn't say it. How many? If I was to ask you to be quiet for a minute and please be quiet for a minute. At least I can count it. It's up there for me. Please be quiet. Now for the interest of time, assume the minute is over. How many children have been born in that one minute? 20 what? 50. And brothers and sisters, every single day, every single hour, we've got 15,000 children being born. So by the time I'll be finished preaching, you can be sure I'll not take one hour. There will be how many children born? 15,000 children have been born. And not just that, every single day 360,000 every day a child is being born. And annually we have 130 million children being born. Brothers and sisters, having mentioned those statistics, it tells me one thing. Come November this year, if not so, by December, the world population will be clicking 8 billion plus. What did I say, church? 8 billion. Now I would like you to know church members before I pray that Christianity is 2 what? 4 billion. That leaves us with how many billions. Christians in the world leaves us with how many? 5.6 six who have not yet known about Christianity. There is the fastest religion growing today. It is Islam. Christianity may be the largest by 31.6%. But it tells us that we've got work to do. And for that work to be done, that 5.6 billion may be reached, something extraordinary must happen. our little children and young girls and boys in our high schools, everyone in the church particular every church that we have today must find themselves something to do. And today I am giving you an assignment to do because I don't intend to preach but to teach you the reason as to why we've got something to do. And so I have given you this QR code and I'm going to take you there at some time. Don't go there at some time at that time. I'll take you there. And I've given you lessons that we're going to learn on what we ought to do each one of us. If you haven't received this, the deacons will be bringing to you. But I'm here to say, brothers and sisters, for something extraordinary to happen, it's not just going to be pastors preaching here today. It's not going to be only lay preachers and the chaplain that are here. Every one of us must hold their Bibles and we go out there to deliver the work of God. Here in New Life, Fifth Gong Avenue, we have agreed together. I told you our mantra is you come in as disciples, church members, we go out as what? Missionaries. That is our mantra. And so with your hands closer to your hearts. Let's go to the drill. Repeat after me. I am humbled to be a part of God's family. Say it like you mean it. I am h Someone has repeated. Say it as you mean it. I was the one telling you to say it like you mean it. Let's begin it one more time. I am humbled to be a part of God's family. I am humble. The hope of a new life in Christ Jesus. The hope of a new life in Christ. I hold on to Bible truth. I hold on to Bible truth. The breath of God. The breath of God to sanctify me whole. I grow daily to perfection. I grow daily to perfection. In Christ likeness in Christ. For I know I have a heaven to gain. For I know I have a gain and a hell to shine. Today I pledge to serve Today I pledge to serve from being a disciple to a missionary from being a disciple to a missionary. Match them all. As the perfect day approaches. As the perfect day approaches. All heads bowed, all eyes closed. Eternal God, heavenly father with a pledge that your children have made. Now open their ears and their eyes and impress upon them, each one of us, the oracles of heaven. May they be embedded in our hearts today that by this pledge each one of us may awake to the demands of the season that henceforth heavenly father like we have said we desire not only to grow daily but we desire to move from being disciples to being missionaries for you. This work can't be done except there be an outpouring of the Holy Spirit the latter reign in verity and even now we pray may he tabernacle here with us that the tables of our minds may be taken captive to your word the breath of God and that when these words shall be spoken from this feeble being Christ you may be exalted as you draw all men to yourself. Thank you for you've promised that when he the helper shall come he shall lead us unto all truth. speak to us now for we know that thou shalt take presidents of our lives. These things we ask in Jesus name and that God's children say amen. Amen. Please be seated. I want to turn your attention to the book of Matthew, chapter 28. Matthew, chapter 28. And I want you to know that there is something that God has designed for each one of us today. I'm going to change our titles today and it comes forth from that particular chapter. You know it very well. You've read it very well. Matthew chapter 28. We are always used to going to verses 18, 19, and 20 which records as such. And Jesus came and spoke to them saying, "All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth." Then he says, "Go therefore and make disciples." This has been given a title as the great commission. Which tells me then if those that are being sent have been asked through this great commission to go and make disciples for the Lord, if I was to given a chance to give another title for this particular sermon, I would say the making of commissioners. And so here cometh another title, brothers and sisters, that you and I have. You have been laid hands upon by the Lord and you've been called a commissioner. Turn to your neighbor and tell them, "Thou art a commissioner." Can you remind them that you are a commissioner? Commissioner. No, no, no, no. Tell them you are a commissioner of heaven. But now listen to me church members. The Bible says that God therefore that's where each one of us becomes a commissioner of heaven and ambassador for Christ. But before being a commissioner, there is an appointment. Go back to verse 16. Church members, go with me to verse 16. The Bible says this. Then the 11 disciples went away into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had done. What church? Now listen to me. Before you become a commissioner, you are appointed. I remember some time back I preached a sermon called appointment before the commission. Now listen to me church members. Every one of us have been appointed. no other place but the mountain. And he says this is the mountain that God has appointed for his commissioners. Now take note, brothers and sisters. Before you go for the commission, go to the mountain in your appointment area. Somebody didn't hear what I said. I'm going to repeat that one more time. Before you embark on the work of commission and being a commissioner, go to the where the mountain where God has appointed. I would like you to take this paper now. Please take this paper because I want to take you to John chapter 4 because John chapter 4 for us who are meiologists has been named as the mission chapter that gives the commission the commissioners their work to do in three phases. Phase one Christ brings to us the private commissioning by the appointment he gives the Samaritan woman. Secondly, he goes to the public commissioning a work done by the Samaritan woman and then finally he gives to us lessons from a family. Now one author I I like reading so much Ellen Hmon White says clearly from the book Gospel Workers that the greatest and highest mission work that can be done is in our families. I'm going to repeat that one more time. the greatest mission work that can ever be done. So this is your first assignment, brothers and sisters, young and old, that are out there at the outer court, those in the holy place and those in the most holy place. The greatest work that God has said in gospel workers is our mission assignment first begins from our homes before it goes anywhere else. And so I'm going to give us these lessons that we're going to pick from John chapter 4 as we try to understand that aspect of the commission that God has given us in the book of Matthew chapter 19 uh chapter 28. Go with me to the book of John chapter 4. Again church, which book did I say? Open with me the book of John chapter 4. As we now embark on the journey of becoming missionaries from being disciples, this is known as the mission chapter. The Bible begins like this. When therefore, all right, therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, though Jesus himself did not baptize, but the disciples, he left Judea. Now the first verse there church members is intending to s to show us something that by Jesus baptizing many disciples something is going to happen. The Pharisees and the scribes are going to be feeling jealous because of the work that Christ is doing and because of that they may make schemes to destroy him. Now listen to me brothers and sisters. Today we are going to baptize more than hundred of us today. Take note, the enemy is not happy with the harvest that the Lord will make here today. It is up for us to be up on our feet and guard those that the Lord shall harvest today. When Jesus realized that the Pharisees have known that he's making more disciples, he left Judea. Let's go to verse two. The Bible says verse three, he left Judea. And the Bible says and departed to Galilee. Now that becomes the first of your lessons on this particular paper today. Listen to me brothers and sisters. The lessons of private is that we are not called to remain static in one particular place. We've got to move from one place to another. We've got to move from one place to another. For this gospel commission desires that we may not be at ease in Zion. Is somebody hearing what I'm saying this afternoon? We have not been called to church members static. It says they moved from one place to another. Christ himself moved from one city and one village from one estate from one home to another. We have been called each one of us that we may leave our comfort zone zones rather and go and go to other places. The Bible tells me in verse four, the Bible tells me but he must go through Samaria. Some other translations say this, he must needs go through Samaria. Now I don't want to open so much the differences because I know many of us understand that Samaria and the Jews didn't have a good rapport. These were the men and women from up upper side of the kingdom and the lower side we had the Jews who were in Judah and in Benjamin and they didn't quite have a good rapport. So they had created boundaries with themselves. You know, Jerusalem was the place that God had told his servants to place the temple and the temple that was placed in Jerusalem is was meant that all the children may come and worship together there. But because those others had gone up north, they went and built another place called Mount Gazarim. And that's the place where they were worshiping from. And they say that that's the place that had been blessed more. And so there had divisions. Now listen to me brothers and sisters. Today we've got divisions that we have made one with another. We've got divisions that we've made probably socially, probably uh uh mentally, probably all these other divisions we have made today. God is going to tell us in the lessons that we're going to learn here that he has broken all these partitions. We are all one in Christ Jesus. And he wants us after we have broken these petitions that we may go forth with the mission work that he has given us. So that's why he says he must need go to Samaria. I'm going to ask us a question to uh this afternoon. Which are those places that you ab from going? Which are those places that you never like going to? Who are those people that you've always placed a barrier that you can't reach out to them? Who are those that you've placed aside that you can't stretch your hand over? The Bible tells me in verse four, he must needs go through Samaria. And I'm going to tell us this afternoon, brothers and sisters, we must go to those particular people that we have put aside. We must go to those places that we have aligned away from us. We must go. The Bible says he must needs go. You know, I realize here we have high school students. We've got those that are coming from where? Haliance High School. Uh we have the Alliance boys. We have Alliance girls. We've got which other school is that? Stere. We have Which other school is that? What is that? Mangu and all those other names. Growing up, I grew in Kissi and we had also several high schools there. We had the Kerreri girls, we had Kissy School and we had these others and we had created partitions amongst ourselves. I remember the kissy school boys were telling us from St. Jones, "Dare you go to Nyaburu girls? Those ones are petitioned for us alone. Those ones who have laughed, I know you were told those things. And I remember others were being told from Cardinal, Cardinal Lotunga also were telling kisses school, we know your neighbors with Ker school. Dare you go there? I don't know whether Alliance Girls, Alliance Boys, you keep moving from across to another side. Or they have also say dare you go across. Now listen to me brothers and sisters. I'm here this afternoon to let you know Christ wants us to break all these barriers and boundaries because he wants his commission work to move forth. Hallelujah church members. And so he says he must needs go through where? Samaria. Let's go to verse 5. The Bible says so he came to a city of Samaria which is called Sika near the plot of the ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. Listen to me church members. For us to become missionaries for God, we've got to be strategic where we place ourselves for mission work. That's another lesson you want to write here. It says you've got to be strategic where you place yourself that you may be able to minister to others. The Bible tells me that he came to the well. I want to run a little bit for the interest of time. The Bible tells me in verse six, now Jacob's well was there. Why does the Bible say Jacob's well was there? And it puts a period or a full stop. It is because that there's a significance about Jacob's well that had been attached by the Samaritan and they thought that through that Jacob's well they had their gateway to the fountain of life and Christ was somewhere about coming to sit down there and tell them hey listen you've cherished so much ugly things but God is going to remove away these ugly things that you've cherished that he may give to you another thing that is divine in nature. I'm going to get to that shortly. Let's go to verse 7. Then the Bible verse six rather the Bible says now Jacob's well was there Jesus therefore being wearied from his journey sat thus by the well period you know what that is clearly saying is that Jesus was also human as much as he is divine he's also human and he's also tired he's also weary brothers and sisters when we are working for God there are times we shall be we may be wearied we may be be discouraged or disappointed Yes, remember that the human nature of God, but be also reminded from what we read from Matthew 28:1 19 that even so, all authority has been given to Jesus Christ from heaven and earth below. And he says, "Lo, I will be with you, chaplain, when you're doing your work, whatever place that you are, wherever place that you go. Sometimes you may be wearied, but I'm here to affirm you, brothers and sisters. Christ is with you." Even though you may not receive an affirmation for human beings, he says, "I am with you." And so the Bible says that Christ was wearied and he went and sat by the well. Again, in the extension of the very lesson that we've learned from here, it says, "As you are strategic, place yourselves in the places where the persons whom God wants to win shall come to." Last week the evangelistic department from this church took themselves from the comfort zone of this church and we went right at Aakhan walk. That is being strategic. Brothers and sisters, I remember pastor Elvis preached in the morning and made a call and later in the evening I also preached together with the gentlemen and ladies that were there and we made calls. We saw a number of people that were streaming in because we left our comfort zones and went strategically where God's children that he desires them to be are that we may win them from Christ. And so for us to be missionaries, we've got to move from comfort zones. Somebody say amen to that. We've got to move from comfort zones. So the Bible tells me that it was about the sixth hour. Now church members, what is the sixth hour? What is the sixth hour? All right. And so the sixth hour is actually uh what? Noon. Are we together? I know that we're going to talk about this Julian calendar and everything else that was changed, but we're talking about the sixth hour. Now brothers and sisters, when do people go to fetch water? Do they go in the morning, in the evening or in the sixth hour? Answer me church members, what time? Christ was very deliberate because he knew that there are people that are there is a person that is going to come at an odd hour to the right place and Christ strategically placed himself there that that person might meet him there. Allow me to tell us disciples who are going to become missionaries today. You may now have to go out of the normal hours and go to the odd hours to win souls for Christ Jesus. Somebody didn't say amen for that. And I know the reason. I remember a time pastor Khali and myself were living here at Parkland and uh that time pastor Khal and myself was serving Nairobi central church. I was called to South South Sudan, Juba to do a youth week of prayer. And so, Pastor Khali being my neighbor, I told him that listen, hey, uh, I can't have my wife drive me to the airport at 3:00 in the night. Allow me to request you to drop me to church at 3:00 in the night. And so, we woke up at 2:00 and Pastor Kio was supposed to drive me to the airport so that I can be there on time to take my flight to Juba. Brothers and sisters, the moment we left the gate like this, we saw some customers run towards us and they were open knocking our doors to come in. Church members, don't ask me whether we asked them to come into the car. Go with me to verse 8. Is that verse 8:6? Christ strategically placed himself at an odd hour. Now I am not suggesting church members that you start getting out at night and get into those particular places lest you endanger your your moral standards. But I'm suggesting these brothers and sisters that it looks to me that we may have to be very deliberate and very strategic that we may go to where we can find the group that God calls for. Now right across this road there is a hospital called Coptic. I don't want to go to the details but when you go to Coptic church uh sorry Coptic hospital you will find attendance at some corner I don't want to say that corner lest you go there and start looking for them and in that corner the orthodox priests working in that particular hospital took themselves at an odd hour and they went and made invitations to these particular customers and they have now made them work at that particular hospital so that they may not be able to go to that place where they have been. We've got to move out of our comfort zones. It's all that I'm saying. Let's go to verse 7. The Bible says, "A woman of Samaria came to draw water." Full stop. And she's coming at the sixth hour hiding from the multitudes. Then the Bible tells me Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink." Church members, this who is saying, "Give me a drink," is the fountain of living waters. This who is saying give me a drink is he who commanded Moses to hit the rock and hence to talk to the rock that it may bring forth water. He is he again that provided shade for the walking Israelites in the what? At the wilderness by day and by night and he provided for them. This is he again that is saying give me drink. Now let me give you another lesson for you to put here brothers and sisters. Desire of ages save these from that particular chapter. Any moment you've got to witness to those persons, look for a entry point to reach out to them. I didn't hear somebody say amen to that. Look for an entry point. And for Jesus, this desire says that this was the key by the which he knew he will share the gospel truth to this particular lady. The Bible tells me, the Bible tells me in that particular verse that he says, "Give me a drink." Then the Bible in verse 8 says this. For his disciples had gone away into the city to do what church to buy food. Food. Another lesson to learn. Avoid distractions when you're ministering. Avoid distractions when you're ministering. Put your fingers in verse 8. Go with me to verse 27. Put your fingers in verse 8. Uh put go to verse 27. What does the Bible say in verse 27? It says this. And upon the disciples, upon this came his disciples, and marveled that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said, "What seekest thou? Or why talkst thou with her?" This tells me as you go back to verse 8, had Jesus stood there to speak with this particular lady when the disciples were present, there is a possibility that they may have distracted Jesus from winning this soul to the kingdom. Avoid distractions as you minister. Brothers and sisters, go with me to verse 9. The Bible tells me that the woman of Samaria said to him, "How is it that you being a Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan woman, for Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans?" Listen to me. Another lesson for us to learn this afternoon. Beware of obstacles and defense mechanisms that will come to those that you minister to. They are always there handy. They will throw them to you one after the other and they'll be there saying, "Hey, I know you're talking about the Sabbath, but listen, Christ resurrected on Sunday. I know you're talking about this, but I know that Christ said, "Let no man judge you because of your food, because of what you or because of the day." They will be there handy to bring to you. And as they do that, do what Christ does. He does not answer the distractions that has been brought ahead. He focuses on what he has been uh sent for. He says, "For we do not have anything to deal with you." But Jesus doesn't go to the destruction. Listen to verse 10. Jesus answered and said to her, "If you knew the gift of God and who it is who says to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water." Christ sticks to what he had begun. The key to the entry to these particular persons. Brothers and sisters, listen to me this afternoon. Those of you who want to become disciples into being missionaries, listen to me. Don't ever be taken sway by the distractions that come your way, focus on what God has sent you to do to that particular person. Christ focused on the key of entry key that he had. Then the Bible says in verse 11, listen to this, the woman still wants to take him back. This is what we call being fixated. And in that fixation, Christ does not go there. The Bible tells me in verse 11, the woman said to him, "Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep wherein, and the well is deep, where then do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank from it himself, as well as his sons and livestock?" Brothers and sisters, this woman is still fixated to certain things. I would like to let you know brothers and sisters, open your eyes through the action of the Holy Spirit that there are times men and women out there whom the Lord desires that they may know the truth will be fixated to certain things. Maybe they'll be fixated to dress. Maybe they'll be fixated to particular cultures. They'll be fixated to certain things. But don't be distracted to that. Maintain your focus on the entry key that you have and that is the gospel truth. the spirit himself will know how to draw out the hearts to himself. Go with me to the next verse. Christ says in verse 13 and Jesus answered to her, "Whoever drinks of this water will thirst again. But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst. But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life." This is what Jesus is telling this woman. These things that you are fixed upon, these things that you holding on onto, these things that you're priding yourself in, these things that you are cherishing, these things that you keep holding on dear to yourselves. I am going to make these things of no effect. I'm going to make these things of no impact because there's a greater thing that Christ wants you to be attached to, brothers and sisters. And so he goes to verse 15. The Bible says, "The woman said to him, "Sir, give me then this water that I may never thirst again nor come here to draw." She still has not gotten the gist of what Christ is telling her. And here in comes another lesson for you. Patience is a great virtue for any missionary winning souls for Christ. I'm going to repeat it one more time. Patience is a great virtue for any missionary who wins souls for Christ. There are two things that happen, brothers and sisters. Number one, there are times you will be disappointed. There are times you will be discouraged. There are times you will feel low and lonely when you're doing some particular work for Christ. But I want to let you know that Matthew 28 said that though you may feel lonely, though you may feel so disappointed, there is one who has said, "Lo, I will be with you till the end of age." There is one missionary who went to ch to from England who went to China. But I'm going to talk about this missionary William Kerry that left uh left left his country in the UK and went to India. That particular gentleman lost a lot of things and not only that he lost his family one after the other but he still stuck to the idea that I know my father that you're the one that commissioned me to India to this to do this work. At one particular time there is a culture in India where when your husband dies and you're the wife as they are burning the body of this particular man at the stakes they say you will also be placed at the very stakes. You are tied placed at the stakes and you die together with your husband. Did you hear me church members? One time William Kerry had just ministered to a particular family and this particular woman before they converted into she had begun understanding and getting to know Christianity and as William Kerry visits them and visit them one thing led to another and this man dies and the tradition goes to take its course. They go and fetch this particular lady and they drag her on the streets taking her to the very sticks where they're going to burn the what the husband. William Kerry came along and he knew that persecution was high at that particular time. But even that he moved along with this lady as he kept on singing a song and say all the way my savior leads me. All the way I know the Lord is with me. Encouraging this particular woman trying to stand against this man from doing this heinous act. But lo and behold, he saw her being wrapped up together and placed at the sticks. It is these that made William Kerry learn 32 dialect languages in India and he translated the scriptures into those all those tribes and dialects until Christianity became well grounded. But as if that's not enough, William K was able to lead some men whom he had spoken to as lawyers and advocates to take a bill to the Congress of India and they changed and made a law that there is nothing like killing a live person with their husbands. And so brothers and sisters, allow me to let you know here, there are moments you'll feel lonely. There are moments you'll feel that things have gone south, rock bottom. But I'm here to let you know that there is he who I say I am with you. Let's go to the next verse. The Bible says in verse what we are now in verse. Are you following me? Where are we? Are we going to verse 16? Yes. The Bible says Jesus said to her, "Go call your who?" What does the Bible say? Go call your who? Go call your husband. Now Jesus began somewhere. He knew where he was headed to. and he knew what was ailing this particular lady. Allow me to let you know brothers and sisters, our mission style has never been the best some time back. Our approach has actually been making people's hearts be hardened. And the things that we begin by make a strong case against us. And look at what Christ is doing here. Even though he knows, and permit me to say it, make no mistake, brothers and sisters, none of us can hide. And this revelation that Jesus is having as a as a conversation with this woman is is is what we call a a a an opening of a a a life of this particular lady that she thought she hid but Christ knew. Christ is trying to tell this lady, I know your life in totality. Allow me to let us know here brothers and sisters, we cannot hide from Christ. He knows our lives in totality. I don't know whether the students you are hearing what I'm saying. students. Hello students. Are we together? Hello students. Some of us are struggling in our host and in our domitories with certain acts and with certain things. Allow me to let you know that Christ is he who told this Samaritan woman, go bring me your husband. He unfolded and opened this woman's life. Christ knows our lives in totality, brothers and sisters. And when he does, hide yourself under the rock because when he knows it, he knows how to cover you and lift you up in due season. The Bible says, "Go bring your husband." The woman answered and said, "I have no what?" Husband. Defense mechanism begins. But he doesn't know that he who is speaking to her knoweth well this life. Jesus said to her, you have said it well that you have no husband. You have had five husbands and the one whom you love is not your husband. He spoke that truly to her. Brothers and sisters, I've really elaborated that and make emphasis to that that Christ knows our lives openly. We can never hide from him. The Bible says in verse 19, the woman said to her to him, "Rather, sir, I perceive that you're a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where one ought to worship." Then Jesus brings that clarion statement where I would like to let you know brothers and sisters even though we are planning to make a cathedral and God bless us that we may build it. Even though we are many of us in this city and even beyond are seeking to build churches for the Lord and God bless us to build them. But Christ makes that clarion statement and says, "A time is coming that neither here in Jerusalem nor on those mountains you will keep attaching yourselves in it, but a time is coming when the Lord who is God in heaven shall be watched worshiped not in particular places but the Lord will be worshiped in truth and in spirit." What is the Lord saying? Sometimes some of us have been attachment when you read the history of the the temple of Solomon where he placed it in Jerusalem. We are told he made it to be such a spectacle that any person that passed by in Jerusalem indeed was saying here a temple for the Jews is God. But when they looked at the Jews themselves and the kind of temple and God that they were talking about, they were worlds apart. Brothers and sisters, there are times we have also made a spectacle of the things that we own. But we are worlds apart from the God that we profess. And because of that, Christ comes to break that. And he says, "A time is coming." Brothers and sisters, a time is going to come sooner or later when all these things shall be brought down and the Lord shall be worshiped. He says, "In truth and in spirit." Go with me to verse 25. The Bible tells me the woman said to him, "I know the Messiah is coming who is also called what?" The Christ. Jesus at that time knew that it is now ripe for me to reveal myself. Now listen to me church members. Christ has taken this particular disciple step by step, step by step. He has made sure that he has trained this person so well that out of that training he now has reached a moment he has to reveal himself and the moment he reveals himself something radical is going to happen. Then Jesus said in verse 26 I who speak to you what did the church say? I am he. I should have had an out amen. You know this he is the very one who said I am the Lord right in Genesis. It is he who spoke to Abraham. It is he who spoke to Moses. It is he that has spoken to all these disciple I mean prophets all these and is now revealing himself. Listen to the lesson that I would like you to put on that particular first part. Brothers and sisters, the first lesson is don't be in a hurry to bring the hard revelation before you lay the platform with the softer revelations. Did somebody hear what I said? You begin from milk, you go to the bones. You begin from the softer aspects as you draw men to God. And you, my brothers and sisters, young and old, that are here this afternoon, God has already already laid the foundation in the first part of the private mission work. He has finished it. Allow me to take you quickly to the public evangelism, which is in verse 27. Go with me to verse 27. The Bible says, "And at that time," so as I go to verse 27, this is what I'm saying. as we go forth to make missionaries for Christ. Begin far, come closer and reveal Christ. Begin from far, begin them slowly and bring Christ. The ultimate revelation of the truth that we preach is nothing else but Christ lifted. Jesus ever said that when I shall be lifted, I'll seek to draw all men to ourselves. We are not calling people to church, the seventh day Adventist church. We are not calling people to just be Christian in Christianity. We are not just calling people to become seventh day Adventist. Nay, we are calling people to become disciples of Jesus Christ. And as they become disciples of Jesus Christ, they'll be grounded in the truth that we teach that is called the Bible truth as the seventh day Adventist church. Christ was exalted at that particular time. And now after that verse 27 says, we had read it the B before the Bible says and at this point his disciples came. Let me ask the church if you are following me. Has he already finished winning a soul for himself? Has destruction now come? Has destruction come? Do you think the destruction is going to do anything from what has been grounded in this particular person? No. Allow me to say this. The fastest growing religion in the world as I've told you is Islam. One of the things they do they have got about five things that they do as they begin converting many but there these two that I want to talk about the first one is they marry many wives that they may get very many children so that many of them can become that particular religion that's one why are people laughing you want us to say we marry very many wives nay but number two what they do is they make sure that the children that have been have been born they well drilled and grilled and drilled and they make sure that the Quran has remained in this particular mind that when these fellows have become big and when they become who they are, they find it difficult to leave their religion. Now listen to me brothers and sisters, I dare say this. We've got to up our game in lifting Christ in our families. We've got to up our game in the ministry that we do. Those of us who are elders, those of us who are deacons and we are visiting these schools, allow us to go through the fundamentals and the truth that is in this Bible. Ground it upon our children that the day that is going to come and Christ will lift up a spirit that will want to sweep away this ripening harvest. May these young people that are here be well grounded in the truth that they will have a standard in them that the enemy will not sweep them away in Jesus name. and our young people we are looking upon you that as you come forth where are grounded today as we baptize some of you now know that you become a missionary you also go to places I remember when I was a chaplain in Yuri I remember young people who are coming out from various universities and when they finish their work we have what we call the public campus ministries here when they come together during holidays they don't go to their homes two weeks they're out there doing mission work and let me tell you this I have told this to the church leaders that today the fastest missionaries that we have today are the young people in our campuses and in our high schools. Why? They are planting more churches than our churches are planting churches. Somebody didn't hear what I said. The three angels message with its power is being spread more faster in our universities and in high schools, in our hospitals and other places than it is happening in our churches. Why? Many of us in our churches want to come come and sit at ease in Zion. Listen to a sermon whether it is powerful or not and get out there and sit and continue that cycle. Those are the rituals and ceremonies that Christ wants to break forth because he wants every one of us to be anioned with the Holy Spirit because from disciples we've got to become missionaries for Jesus Christ. Is somebody hearing what I'm saying this afternoon? And so Jesus says at that particular time the destruction has come but this woman cannot be shaken. Brothers and sisters, I pray to God, especially for our young people, when you shall leave the port holes over your institutions, don't be shaken when you shall enter into the universities because let me warn you in the universities, you'll find the freedom that you can't find out here. But when so you enter the universities and we pray you all go there, brothers and sisters, young as you are, be grounded in the faith that you have been brought up in be grounded. You will go and find Nairobi University has got Ya. You'll go and find J Kenyata University has got J Kusta. You'll go and find Kenyat University has got the Kasers everywhere you'll go. You will find Adventist students that are geared toward doing the work of God and join and enlist yourself and I'll let you know you'll find yourselves during holiday season especially you who are going to be baptized today that you'll start ministering and winning soul s so for Jesus Christ. Listen to those this woman does. And this is what I want us to conclude with. The Bible tells me that as the disciples are marveling and asking, he's speaking to this woman and they are thinking about how he's speaking to this woman who number one is a what? A Samaritan and then a woman. Verse 28, the Bible tells me the woman then left her port and went her way into the city and said to the men, church members, allow me to make an emphasis on that particular verse. The Bible tells me the woman left her what? Where is the port normally put? Where is the port put? Uh, no. Let me not ask the young children. Let me ask the older ones cuz they may not even be understanding what a port is. Where was the port put? Mrs. Ross Mill Rosen Okumu on the head. Could you kindly stand? Demonstrate how you are going to the river. Mrs. says, "Kumu, did you ever go to the river for water?" Oh, okay. Fine. You don't look like you did. Oh, you did. Demonstrate how you used to carry the pot. Place it. Place place your Bible there. Okay, fine. So, the Bible chini. Now, Mrs. Okumu, this is what this woman does all along. She has been carrying a heavy load as he's speaking with Jesus Christ. When Christ has finished placing something in her heart, she says, "Enough is enough." She put the pot down. Put the pot down. Start going for mission work. Now you can come back, Mrs. Okumu. Brothers and sisters, I want you to turn to your neighbor and ask them, "What port are you holding?" Please ask them like you mean it. What pot are you holding? Now tell them this. Put the port down. Put the pot down. Go for mission. Go for mission. Put them Put the pot down. Put the pot down. And go for mission. Some of us, brothers and sisters, the pots that we are having up here could be our careers. Some of us the pots that we are holding up here could be our wealth. Some of us the pots that we are handling up here could be whatever thing that it is. Jesus after he has impressed the truth upon this lady. This lady puts the pot down and she goes for mission work. Somebody say amen to that. Continue. Let's continue and finish. The Bible says in verse 29, he went and spoke to the men who had been the subject persons that have been messing up this lady. Mention it to me. Who have been the subject persons messing up this lady? Whom does he turn fast to? The Bible says he went and spoke to the man and he says, "Come and do what? See, a man who told me all things that I ever did." Then she says, "Could this be the Christ?" Listen to me, church members. You don't have to know the sanctuary message in totality. You do not have to know the the the the the stages of salvation in totality. You do not have to know the the the what the trinity in totality. You do not have to know the this the great controversy theme in totality. But this thing I know. Go and tell them to meet the Jesus that has met your life. That's all the message that you have to do. Come and see the man that has revealed to me everything. Verse 30, the Bible says, "Then they went out of the city and came to him." Let me put another stamp there and say this. When you move in the spirit of Christ and Christ is leading you and you share Christ, you get people out of their comfort zones. The Bible tells me they moved out from where they were. That is verse 30. And they went to him. Brothers and sisters, call men to the prince Emmanuel. Call men to this high priest. Call men to this savior that has died for the entire world. Call men not to anywhere else, but call men to Christ Jesus himself. The Bible tells me in verse 31, in the meantime, his disciples urged him, saying, "Rabbi, eat distraction." Number two, there are certain things that may be necessities in our lives, but they are not priorities in our lives. No, somebody didn't hear what I said. There are certain things that may be necessities, but they are not priorities in our lives. Christ says this in verse 32, "But he said to them, I have food to eat of which you do not know." Therefore, the disciples say to one another, "Has anyone brought anything to him to eat?" Then Jesus said to him, to them, verse 34, "My food is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work, do you not know or do you not see? They are still for months and then comes the harvest. Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and look at the fields, for they are already white, white for harvest." And brothers and sisters, this is where I want to make a post and say this. The statistics I gave you, tell me this. The world population is moving more faster in terms of birth than it is moving faster in terms of conversion and people knowing Christ Jesus. Men and women out there are thirsty to know the truth. When you see what's happening in Gaza, when you see what's happening between Russia and Ukraine, when you see what's happening round and about us, it tells us of this one thing. The world is now white and ripe for the harvest. And it's calling upon missionaries like you and myself. That's why he says, "Lift up your eyes. Your eyes have been so much down here below. Your eyes have been so much down here below. We can only move across and go to this other church. We can only move across and go to that other church." Christ is saying, "Lift up your eyes higher and see the harvest that is out there waiting." Then the Bible says in verse 36, "And he who reaps receives wages and gathers fruit for eternal life, that both he who sws and he who reaps may rejoice together. For in this saying is true, one sows and one another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you had not labored. Others have labored and you have entered into their labors. Which takes me to this last one that I gave to you here. Brothers and sisters, there is a QR code that I gave you here. I want you to take it out. Now, I gave you this QR code and I would like the communication team, please, could you put it on the screens? This is the only time the pastor can tell you to pull out your phone. Are you with there with me? Church members, those ones who are out there, I hope you received the QR code. I now want you to scan it because I've got ministries that I put there from A to Z. No one in this church will ever sit idle because with those ministries, please tick the box. Please tick the box of the closest ministry that is closer to what you know you can do. I put them from A to Z. Young people do the same. And it can go around that you may be able to tick the box. It's right here. Right here says tick the box of the ministries. There are about 26 of them. The chaplain who are here will let you know that they are doing hospital ministry, prison ministry and the others. But there are 26 ministries are put there. Please tick the box. I want you to do that right now. But why? Because evangelism department will cluster these things together through online and other places because every one of us is going to be a missionary for Christ. So look at that particular QR code, scan it and pick a ministry for yourself. I'm going to give you a minute to do that please. [Music] You are on the QR code. You've pulled it up. It has brought 26. Anyone has seen that? If you have seen that, say yes. Uh oh, there are 26 of them. Now it is giving you a place where you'll tick. As you tick that, it will cluster you all together. So there are those who will be in the prayer ministry. There are those who will be in the street ministry. There are those who will be in the on the way home ministry. There are those who will be in the helping or gift ministry. There are several ministry there. There are 26 of them. Please stick one. And as you find that, you'll find yourself. And those of you who are in the particular ministries, that's okay. You don't have to do that. But I'm giving this to anyone who now hasn't ever known where they are. It is right there. Do it. And once you've done, listen to verse 38 as I finish. It says, "And many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him because of the word of the woman who testified, he told me all that I ever did." Now, let me give you the geography of Samaria. Samaria had a population of about 1.1 million and 1.1 million the city was like the current Nairobi metropolitan 65 kilometers from up north down south 56 kilometers from west to east brothers and sisters that is like saying you've come from Kikuyo all the way to Mombasa road ai river and you've moved from rangai all the way to juja that particular area. It tells me that this woman alone covered the entire metropolitan of Nairobi. Today I know we are about 4 million plus we moving into 5 million. Statistics are telling us that. But those days Samaria was 1.1 million. It tells me in verse 39 and many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him because of the word of that woman. Church members, let me let you know here today. Whether you want to keep sitting at ease in Zion, Christ does not need all of us. Christ needs only one person to stand and they will make a testimony to win the entire metropolitan. How many does Christ need church members? One. Could that be you? Could that be myself? So when the Samaritans had come to him, so she has drawn men to Christ. But when they reach at Christ, the Bible tells us they urged him to stay with them and he stayed an extra two days. Church members, there are moments when Christ, we have to plead with him to stay a little longer in our homes. There are times we've got to plead with him to stay a little longer in our nation. There are times we've got to plead with him to stay a little longer with our children. Stay a little longer that they may behold your goodness. They say, "Behold," he stayed two more days. Verse 241 the Bible says and many more believed because now not of the woman but because of the word. Church members lift up the word and it shall draw men to Christ. When they said to the now then they said to the woman now we believe not because of what you said for we ourselves have heard him and we know that this indeed is the Christ the savior of the world. Somebody say amen to that. And so church members this afternoon, allow me to say these things. When we become missionaries for Christ and move men and women to Christ, he himself shall turn their hearts around to himself and ground them, but the enemy will never sweep them away from them. Let me see that one person that is saying today, let that one person be me. That one person that is saying it doesn't have to be the entire church. Let that person be me. I want Christ to enlist me that I may become a part of the missionaries. Let that person be me. You stand now. Last week we had a people, God bless you. Last week we had a people that gave their lives in town and some of them looked for us during the week and they were coming here and they are saying we want to know more. Thank you for those that are standing. They're saying enlist me. Enlist me, Christ, now that I've known my gift, God, make me a part of your ministry. If you're there, please stand. I'm saying make me one. Thank you. Thank you, my young friend. We're standing and those who are standing. Thank you for those who are standing. And you're saying today, God, make me a part of your missionaries for you. You're saying we want to make a difference. We want to make a difference in our places where we are either in our homes, in our estates, in our workplaces, whatever it is. So if I am working in a particular company, make me that one person to turn that company around. If you're making me living in an estate that doesn't know you, make me that one person that I may turn that estate around. If I am in Alliance High School, make me that one student that will make the entire school know that here comes a God. If I am in Mangu High, make me that one student. Make me that one student. Please, as they sing that first stanza, I'd like to pray for those ones who have stood. And then I'll be calling my colleague, Pastor Elvis, to come and uh bring the baptismal candidates that they may also join with us as we prepare them for baptism. Thank you for standing. For those that are saying, I want to be that one person. I want to be that one person. I want to be that one person. I want to be that one person to make a difference, to make a change. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you very much. those who are standing for you. I'll pray for you. I'll pray for you. Please sing. Keep singing. Please come. Come. Let me pray for you. A special prayer and then you'll exit back to your seats. Those that have stood. May Christ indeed make you the missionaries that he desires to be. Those of you who have stood, you come. You [Music] come. And in the event that some of you probably have never been baptized and you want to join the team that is going to be baptized probably not today probably in the future you come too. I'm going to make a special prayer for you and with you. Please come too. Here cometh God's children that are heeding the call and they're saying I want to be that person that want to make a difference. I want to be that person that will make a difference. Thank you for coming. [Music] I can see there are some that are walking from outside. Don't feel shy to come. Please come. I'm going to make a special prayer that God may anoint these brothers and sisters with the anction of the Holy Spirit that you may go out there to minister for souls for his sake. Christ wants us to move from being disciples to being missionaries for him. 369 Bringing in the shoes. Psalm 369. 369. [Music] Sowing in the morning, sowing seeds of kindness, seowing in the noon time and the new year, waiting for the harvest at the time of reaping. We shall come rejoicing, bringing in the shield, bringing in the shield, bringing in the shield. We shall come rejoicing, bringing in the sh. Bringing in the shield, bringing in the shield. We shall come rej. [Music] [Applause] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's all be upstanding. Those of us who are out there, let's all be upstanding. with all heads bowed, with all eyes closed. There are those that are boldly moved up front because they have heeded the call that they may want to become missionaries for Christ. I raise my hand and stretch it forth to you and ask for a special anointing from the Holy Spirit. Father, you have said that they that come unto me, I shall in no wise cast them away. There are those who have heeded the call that they may, like the Samaritan woman, be instruments to be used when the Holy Spirit will have taken captive their hearts and minds to win souls for the kingdom. And so I pray, heavenly father, that you may open our eyes to see the need of the moment and we may join hands together as commissioners for you because you've commanded us to go. Many a times we have sat at ease in Zion. Many a times we have sat not knowing that there is an urgent call of the hour for missionaries that will go forth out there and win souls for you. We have some in the prisons. We have some in the schools. We have some in hospitals. We have some in the streets. We have some in our workplaces. And Christ, you're calling upon us and saying, "I would like you to be my missionary out there." And Father, I pray they that have heeded the call, please grant them an outpouring of the Holy Spirit in verity and permit that they may touch lives like the life of the Samaritan woman touched the lives of many that they may be worn to your kingdom. Thank you this day, my Lord, for each one of us has been enlisted in this mission work. There's none to be called or to be idle in the cause of God. We have all been called that we may join our efforts together to win souls for the kingdom. And as you seek to tell us, soon you're bringing your kingdom home. We pray that we may be a part of those that shall bring these fallen brothers and sisters back home. And make your truth known to many that indeed just like the Samaritan woman did and this man and women were able to say, "Now we are believed not because of your word, but we're believed because Christ has revealed himself to us. May that be the testimony we shall hear of many of these that shall go out there to minister. Thank you heavenly father for thouast heard and answered our prayer. Continue to use us mightily for the cause that you've called us for and our church members. May the Lord bless you and keep you. May the Lord lift up his countenance upon each one of you and be gracious to you. May he cause his face to shine upon you and grant you peace. peace now and forever. In his name we pray. Amen. Go forth in the power and the spirit of God to minister in his behalf. In Jesus name we pray. Amen. Please you may be seated. All the baptismal candidates, you may want to remain 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[0.0s] In the name of the Father, the Son, and
[2.6s] the Holy
[4.5s] Spirit. Happy Sabbath everyone.
[8.8s] Happy Sabbath. Happy. The way the
[13.3s] students from Stere have
[15.8s] sung, it looks to me that the way you're
[18.7s] responding, they have eaten into your
[21.0s] voices.
[23.0s] Happy Sabbath, church. Happy day. And
[26.7s] happy day. Happy Sabbath. I think by and
[30.8s] by God is giving us a reason why we will
[35.1s] need to put our cathedral here the
[38.0s] soonest. All in favor say I. I. All who
[42.2s] are praying for it say amen. Amen. We
[45.2s] are looking forward to the time the Lord
[47.1s] shall bless us with a sanctuary here and
[50.3s] we pray to God indeed that it comes to
[53.0s] pass the soonest. I am aware that people
[57.2s] are praying about it and I'm very
[58.7s] optimistic. Now we had requested Elder
[61.7s] Kori, thank you very much for making
[63.2s] that humble request. We made a request
[66.2s] that those who can be touched to move
[68.8s] out but I am not seeing those that are
[71.4s] coming in and I'm seeing empty chairs in
[74.6s] here. So I want to request that still if
[77.0s] we have those of our visitors who are
[78.5s] out there let them come in.
[91.5s] Weti so that they can be comfortable in
[94.8s] the sight of God. I want to take this
[99.0s] time to welcome everyone of you. My
[100.6s] colleague Pastor Elvis is here with us.
[102.2s] Pastor Polycap is down at Zimman uh
[105.9s] finishing our family life week of
[108.8s] prayer. I know that we have stood again
[111.4s] and again, but you know the drill by
[113.0s] now. I would like to request us to be
[114.8s] upstanding as we invite the presence of
[116.7s] the Holy Spirit here with us. You know
[118.0s] the drill by now. Those of you are
[119.9s] members of Fifth Gong Avenue, I would
[123.4s] like you to be upstanding
[126.4s] kindly. Every one of us, let's all be
[128.5s] upstanding. The candidates, please for
[130.4s] baptism, please stand. This is a very
[132.6s] high Sabbath for us today. And I want to
[135.8s] believe that God will be gracious to us
[138.6s] even as we have these ones who are going
[140.3s] to be baptized that we will also have
[142.7s] another team. Church
[145.1s] members, allow
[147.0s] me to say these words.
[152.8s] Today when you look into your internet
[156.5s] or you go to the world population
[158.8s] website, we have about
[162.5s] 250 children being born every minute.
[166.4s] How many did I
[168.6s] say? You did. You didn't say it. How
[170.8s] many?
[173.1s] If I was to ask you to be quiet for a
[175.9s] minute and please be quiet for a minute.
[177.9s] At least I can count it. It's up there
[179.8s] for me. Please be
[193.2s] quiet. Now for the interest of time,
[195.4s] assume the minute is
[197.7s] over. How many children have been born
[200.1s] in that one minute?
[204.0s] 20 what? 50. And brothers and sisters,
[207.7s] every single day, every single hour,
[209.8s] we've got
[211.2s] 15,000 children being born. So by the
[214.3s] time I'll be finished preaching, you can
[216.2s] be sure I'll not take one hour. There
[217.7s] will be how many children born?
[220.3s] 15,000 children have been born. And not
[223.4s] just that, every single day
[228.6s] 360,000 every day a child is being born.
[233.0s] And annually we have 130 million
[237.2s] children being born. Brothers and
[239.5s] sisters, having mentioned those
[241.1s] statistics, it tells me one thing. Come
[244.5s] November this year, if not so, by
[247.6s] December, the world population will be
[250.3s] clicking 8 billion
[253.2s] plus. What did I say, church? 8 billion.
[257.2s] Now I would like you to know church
[259.1s] members before I pray that Christianity
[262.1s] is 2 what? 4 billion. That leaves us
[266.6s] with how many
[279.1s] billions. Christians in the world leaves
[281.3s] us with how
[282.8s] many? 5.6 six who have not yet known
[287.5s] about
[288.8s] Christianity. There is the fastest
[291.4s] religion growing today. It is
[294.8s] Islam. Christianity may be the largest
[297.2s] by
[298.6s] 31.6%. But it tells us that we've got
[301.0s] work to do. And for that work to be
[304.1s] done, that 5.6 billion may be reached,
[308.3s] something extraordinary must happen. our
[312.3s] little children and young girls and boys
[314.0s] in our high schools, everyone in the
[316.4s] church particular every church that we
[318.4s] have today must find themselves
[321.1s] something to do. And today I am giving
[325.0s] you an assignment to do because I don't
[326.9s] intend to preach but to teach you the
[329.1s] reason as to why we've got something to
[330.7s] do. And so I have given you this QR code
[335.4s] and I'm going to take you there at some
[337.0s] time. Don't go there at some time at
[338.9s] that time. I'll take you there. And I've
[340.6s] given you lessons that we're going to
[342.5s] learn on what we ought to do each one of
[345.2s] us. If you haven't received this, the
[346.8s] deacons will be bringing to you. But I'm
[348.6s] here to say, brothers and sisters, for
[350.2s] something extraordinary to happen, it's
[353.3s] not just going to be pastors preaching
[355.0s] here today. It's not going to be only
[357.0s] lay preachers and the chaplain that are
[358.5s] here. Every one of us must hold their
[361.2s] Bibles and we go out there to deliver
[363.1s] the work of God. Here in New Life, Fifth
[366.0s] Gong Avenue, we have agreed together. I
[368.1s] told you our mantra is you come in as
[371.4s] disciples, church members, we go out as
[373.4s] what? Missionaries. That is our mantra.
[376.7s] And so with your hands closer to your
[378.9s] hearts. Let's go to the
[381.7s] drill. Repeat after me. I am humbled to
[385.4s] be a part of God's family.
[390.0s] Say it like you mean it. I am h Someone
[393.3s] has repeated. Say it as you mean it. I
[395.9s] was the one telling you to say it like
[397.3s] you mean it. Let's begin it one more
[399.2s] time. I am humbled to be a part of God's
[401.9s] family. I am humble.
[405.8s] The hope of a new life in Christ Jesus.
[409.4s] The hope of a new life in Christ. I hold
[412.7s] on to Bible truth. I hold on to Bible
[416.2s] truth. The breath of God. The breath of
[418.5s] God to sanctify me whole.
[422.7s] I grow daily to perfection. I grow daily
[425.8s] to perfection. In Christ likeness in
[428.6s] Christ. For I know I have a heaven to
[431.5s] gain. For I know I have a gain and a
[434.8s] hell to shine.
[437.3s] Today I pledge to serve Today I pledge
[440.8s] to serve from being a disciple to a
[443.3s] missionary from being a disciple to a
[446.1s] missionary. Match them all.
[449.0s] As the perfect day approaches. As the
[451.8s] perfect day approaches. All heads bowed,
[454.8s] all eyes
[457.6s] closed. Eternal God, heavenly
[461.8s] father with a pledge that your children
[464.6s] have made. Now open their ears and their
[467.9s] eyes and impress upon them, each one of
[471.8s] us, the oracles of heaven. May they be
[475.8s] embedded in our hearts today that by
[478.8s] this pledge each one of us may awake to
[482.6s] the demands of the season that
[485.4s] henceforth heavenly father like we have
[487.8s] said we desire not only to grow daily
[490.2s] but we desire to move from being
[491.9s] disciples to being missionaries for you.
[495.3s] This work can't be done except there be
[498.1s] an outpouring of the Holy Spirit the
[500.5s] latter reign in verity and even now we
[503.5s] pray may he tabernacle here with us that
[507.0s] the tables of our minds may be taken
[509.1s] captive to your word the breath of God
[512.3s] and that when these words shall be
[513.6s] spoken from this feeble being Christ you
[515.5s] may be exalted as you draw all men to
[518.2s] yourself. Thank you for you've promised
[521.0s] that when he the helper shall come he
[523.0s] shall lead us unto all truth. speak to
[524.9s] us now for we know that thou shalt take
[528.8s] presidents of our lives. These things we
[531.1s] ask in Jesus name and that God's
[532.6s] children say amen. Amen. Please be
[546.2s] seated. I want to turn your attention to
[548.6s] the book of Matthew, chapter 28.
[551.1s] Matthew, chapter 28.
[554.1s] And I want you to know that there is
[555.5s] something that God has designed for each
[557.6s] one of us today. I'm going to change our
[560.9s] titles today and it comes forth from
[563.7s] that particular chapter. You know it
[565.2s] very well. You've read it very well.
[567.3s] Matthew chapter 28. We are always used
[570.6s] to going to verses 18, 19, and 20 which
[575.4s] records as such. And
[578.6s] Jesus came and spoke to them saying,
[582.3s] "All authority has been given to me in
[585.7s] heaven and on earth." Then he says,
[589.8s] "Go therefore and make disciples."
[593.8s] This has been given a title as the great
[598.1s] commission. Which tells me then if those
[601.1s] that are being sent have been asked
[604.4s] through this great commission to go and
[606.8s] make disciples for the Lord, if I was to
[609.6s] given a chance to give another title for
[612.8s] this particular sermon, I would say the
[615.3s] making of commissioners. And so here
[618.1s] cometh another title, brothers and
[619.7s] sisters, that you and I have. You have
[623.2s] been laid hands upon by the Lord and
[625.9s] you've been called a commissioner. Turn
[628.5s] to your neighbor and tell them, "Thou
[630.4s] art a commissioner."
[637.2s] Can you remind them that you are a
[638.8s] commissioner?
[642.0s] Commissioner. No, no, no, no. Tell them
[644.7s] you are a commissioner of heaven.
[649.4s] But now listen to me church members. The
[651.0s] Bible says that God therefore that's
[653.7s] where each one of us becomes a
[656.5s] commissioner of heaven and ambassador
[659.6s] for Christ. But before being a
[663.3s] commissioner, there is an
[666.1s] appointment. Go back to verse 16. Church
[670.4s] members, go with me to verse 16. The
[672.1s] Bible says this. Then the 11
[676.4s] disciples went away into
[680.1s] Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had
[683.4s] done. What
[684.8s] church? Now listen to me. Before you
[688.6s] become a commissioner, you are
[691.6s] appointed. I remember some time back I
[693.8s] preached a sermon called appointment
[696.4s] before the commission. Now listen to me
[699.0s] church members. Every one of us have
[702.1s] been appointed. no other place but the
[705.5s] mountain. And he says this is the
[707.9s] mountain that God has appointed for his
[711.3s] commissioners. Now take note, brothers
[713.3s] and sisters. Before you go for the
[716.2s] commission, go to the mountain in your
[719.0s] appointment area. Somebody didn't hear
[721.9s] what I said. I'm going to repeat that
[723.6s] one more time. Before you embark on the
[726.8s] work of commission and being a
[730.0s] commissioner, go to the where the
[733.4s] mountain where God has appointed. I
[736.5s] would like you to take this paper now.
[738.6s] Please take this paper because I want to
[740.1s] take you to John chapter 4 because John
[744.3s] chapter 4 for us who are meiologists has
[747.5s] been named as the mission chapter that
[751.4s] gives the commission the commissioners
[754.1s] their work to do in three phases. Phase
[757.8s] one Christ brings to us the private
[762.4s] commissioning by the appointment he
[764.6s] gives the Samaritan woman. Secondly, he
[767.4s] goes to the public commissioning a work
[770.7s] done by the Samaritan woman and then
[773.7s] finally he gives to us lessons from a
[777.7s] family. Now one author I I like reading
[780.2s] so much Ellen Hmon White says clearly
[783.5s] from the book Gospel Workers that the
[787.0s] greatest and highest mission work that
[789.8s] can be done is in our families. I'm
[794.0s] going to repeat that one more time. the
[795.8s] greatest mission work that can ever be
[797.7s] done. So this is your first assignment,
[800.5s] brothers and sisters, young and old,
[803.0s] that are out there at the outer court,
[805.6s] those in the holy place and those in the
[807.8s] most holy place. The greatest work that
[810.7s] God has said in gospel workers is our
[814.1s] mission assignment first begins from our
[816.6s] homes before it goes anywhere else. And
[819.4s] so I'm going to give us these lessons
[821.9s] that we're going to pick from John
[823.5s] chapter 4 as we try to understand that
[826.3s] aspect of the commission that God has
[828.9s] given us in the book of Matthew chapter
[831.2s] 19 uh chapter 28. Go with me to the book
[834.0s] of John chapter 4. Again church, which
[836.6s] book did I say?
[838.9s] Open with me the book of John chapter 4.
[841.0s] As we now embark on the journey of
[844.8s] becoming
[846.4s] missionaries from being
[849.3s] disciples, this is known as the mission
[852.9s] chapter. The Bible begins like this.
[856.6s] When therefore, all right, therefore,
[859.5s] when the Lord knew that the Pharisees
[862.4s] had heard that Jesus made and baptized
[865.8s] more disciples than John, though Jesus
[869.2s] himself did not baptize, but the
[871.0s] disciples, he left Judea. Now the first
[875.4s] verse there church members is intending
[878.2s] to s to show us something that by Jesus
[882.0s] baptizing many disciples something is
[885.2s] going to happen. The Pharisees and the
[887.7s] scribes are going to be feeling jealous
[889.6s] because of the work that Christ is doing
[891.6s] and because of that they may make
[893.1s] schemes to destroy him. Now listen to me
[896.0s] brothers and sisters. Today we are going
[897.4s] to baptize more than hundred of us
[899.4s] today. Take note, the enemy is not happy
[902.7s] with the harvest that the Lord will make
[904.4s] here today. It is up for us to be up on
[908.0s] our feet and guard those that the Lord
[911.0s] shall harvest today. When Jesus realized
[913.6s] that the Pharisees have known that he's
[916.5s] making more disciples, he left Judea.
[919.8s] Let's go to verse two. The Bible says
[921.1s] verse three, he left Judea. And the
[924.7s] Bible says and departed to Galilee. Now
[928.7s] that becomes the first of your lessons
[931.8s] on this particular paper today. Listen
[933.8s] to me brothers and sisters. The lessons
[935.4s] of private is that we are not called to
[938.4s] remain static in one particular place.
[941.8s] We've got to move from one place to
[943.8s] another. We've got to move from one
[945.3s] place to another. For this gospel
[947.3s] commission desires that we may not be at
[949.8s] ease in Zion. Is somebody hearing what
[951.8s] I'm saying this afternoon? We have not
[954.0s] been called to church members static. It
[956.9s] says they moved from one place to
[958.6s] another. Christ himself moved from one
[961.6s] city and one village from one estate
[964.3s] from one home to another. We have been
[967.7s] called each one of us that we may leave
[970.4s] our comfort zone zones rather and go and
[974.0s] go to other places. The Bible tells me
[976.5s] in verse four, the Bible tells me but he
[981.0s] must go through Samaria. Some other
[984.5s] translations say this, he must needs go
[987.7s] through Samaria. Now I don't want to
[990.2s] open so much the differences because I
[993.2s] know many of us understand that Samaria
[996.5s] and the Jews didn't have a good
[1001.1s] rapport. These were the men and women
[1003.8s] from up upper side of the kingdom and
[1007.0s] the lower side we had the Jews who were
[1009.3s] in Judah and in Benjamin and they didn't
[1011.5s] quite have a good rapport. So they had
[1013.4s] created boundaries with themselves. You
[1015.4s] know, Jerusalem was the place that God
[1017.2s] had told his servants to place the
[1019.4s] temple and the temple that was placed in
[1021.7s] Jerusalem is was meant that all the
[1023.4s] children may come and worship together
[1026.5s] there. But because those others had gone
[1029.2s] up north, they went and built another
[1031.4s] place called Mount Gazarim. And that's
[1033.4s] the place where they were worshiping
[1034.9s] from. And they say that that's the place
[1036.9s] that had been blessed more. And so there
[1038.9s] had divisions. Now listen to me brothers
[1041.1s] and sisters. Today we've got divisions
[1043.3s] that we have made one with another.
[1044.9s] We've got divisions that we've made
[1046.6s] probably socially, probably uh uh
[1048.9s] mentally, probably all these other
[1051.1s] divisions we have made today. God is
[1053.9s] going to tell us in the lessons that
[1055.7s] we're going to learn here that he has
[1057.4s] broken all these partitions. We are all
[1059.7s] one in Christ Jesus. And he wants us
[1062.6s] after we have broken these petitions
[1064.3s] that we may go forth with the mission
[1065.8s] work that he has given us. So that's why
[1067.6s] he says he must need go to Samaria. I'm
[1072.2s] going to ask us a question to uh this
[1073.8s] afternoon. Which are those places that
[1076.6s] you ab from going? Which are those
[1079.6s] places that you never like going to? Who
[1082.5s] are those people that you've always
[1084.2s] placed a barrier that you can't reach
[1085.6s] out to them? Who are those that you've
[1087.8s] placed aside that you can't stretch your
[1089.8s] hand over? The Bible tells me in verse
[1091.8s] four, he must needs go through Samaria.
[1095.4s] And I'm going to tell us this afternoon,
[1096.9s] brothers and sisters, we must go to
[1099.6s] those particular people that we have put
[1101.2s] aside. We must go to those places that
[1104.2s] we have aligned away from us. We must
[1106.9s] go. The Bible says he must needs
[1110.4s] go. You know, I realize here we have
[1112.7s] high school students. We've got those
[1114.2s] that are coming from where? Haliance
[1116.2s] High School. Uh we have the Alliance
[1118.2s] boys. We have Alliance girls. We've got
[1119.9s] which other school is that? Stere. We
[1121.7s] have Which other school is that?
[1124.7s] What is that? Mangu and all those other
[1128.1s] names. Growing up, I grew in Kissi and
[1131.1s] we had also several high schools there.
[1133.8s] We had the Kerreri girls, we had Kissy
[1135.9s] School and we had these others and we
[1138.5s] had created partitions amongst
[1141.2s] ourselves. I remember the kissy school
[1143.4s] boys were telling us from St. Jones,
[1146.0s] "Dare you go to Nyaburu girls? Those
[1149.4s] ones are petitioned for us
[1152.4s] alone.
[1155.5s] Those ones who have laughed, I know you
[1157.8s] were told those things. And I remember
[1160.7s] others were being told from Cardinal,
[1162.7s] Cardinal Lotunga also were telling
[1164.4s] kisses school, we know your neighbors
[1166.5s] with Ker school. Dare you go
[1169.7s] there? I don't know whether Alliance
[1172.1s] Girls, Alliance Boys, you keep moving
[1173.8s] from across to another side. Or they
[1175.7s] have also say dare you go
[1178.1s] across. Now listen to me brothers and
[1180.3s] sisters. I'm here this afternoon to let
[1182.3s] you know Christ wants us to break all
[1185.7s] these barriers and boundaries because he
[1187.8s] wants his commission work to move forth.
[1189.4s] Hallelujah church members. And so he
[1191.6s] says he must needs go through where?
[1194.4s] Samaria. Let's go to verse 5. The Bible
[1196.3s] says so he came to a city of Samaria
[1199.6s] which is called Sika near the plot of
[1202.2s] the ground that Jacob gave to his son
[1205.2s] Joseph. Listen to me church members. For
[1207.8s] us to become missionaries for God, we've
[1210.2s] got to be strategic where we place
[1212.6s] ourselves for mission work. That's
[1214.3s] another lesson you want to write here.
[1216.0s] It says you've got to be strategic where
[1218.3s] you place yourself that you may be able
[1220.1s] to minister to others. The Bible tells
[1221.8s] me that he came to the well. I want to
[1223.8s] run a little bit for the interest of
[1225.0s] time. The Bible tells me in verse six,
[1226.7s] now Jacob's well was there. Why does the
[1230.7s] Bible say Jacob's well was there? And it
[1232.6s] puts a period or a full stop. It is
[1235.5s] because that there's a significance
[1237.4s] about Jacob's well that had been
[1239.3s] attached by the Samaritan and they
[1241.2s] thought that through that Jacob's well
[1243.6s] they had their gateway to the fountain
[1245.3s] of life and Christ was somewhere about
[1247.4s] coming to sit down there and tell them
[1249.4s] hey listen you've cherished so much ugly
[1251.7s] things but God is going to remove away
[1253.6s] these ugly things that you've cherished
[1255.2s] that he may give to you another thing
[1257.2s] that is divine in nature. I'm going to
[1259.0s] get to that shortly. Let's go to verse
[1260.4s] 7. Then the Bible verse six rather the
[1263.0s] Bible says now Jacob's well was there
[1265.5s] Jesus therefore being wearied from his
[1268.9s] journey sat thus by the well period you
[1272.9s] know what that is clearly saying is that
[1275.0s] Jesus was also human as much as he is
[1277.4s] divine he's also human and he's also
[1280.1s] tired he's also weary brothers and
[1282.6s] sisters when we are working for God
[1284.4s] there are times we shall be we may be
[1286.9s] wearied we may be be discouraged or
[1289.2s] disappointed Yes, remember that the
[1291.7s] human nature of God, but be also
[1294.0s] reminded from what we read from Matthew
[1296.2s] 28:1 19 that even so, all authority has
[1299.8s] been given to Jesus Christ from heaven
[1301.8s] and earth below. And he says, "Lo, I
[1304.6s] will be with you, chaplain, when you're
[1306.8s] doing your work, whatever place that you
[1308.3s] are, wherever place that you go.
[1309.6s] Sometimes you may be wearied, but I'm
[1311.4s] here to affirm you, brothers and
[1312.9s] sisters. Christ is with you." Even
[1315.2s] though you may not receive an
[1316.3s] affirmation for human beings, he says,
[1318.8s] "I am with you." And so the Bible says
[1321.0s] that Christ was wearied and he went and
[1323.4s] sat by the well. Again, in the extension
[1326.0s] of the very lesson that we've learned
[1327.4s] from here, it says, "As you are
[1329.5s] strategic, place yourselves in the
[1332.6s] places where the persons whom God wants
[1336.4s] to win shall come to."
[1340.0s] Last week the evangelistic department
[1342.3s] from this church took themselves from
[1344.6s] the comfort zone of this church and we
[1347.4s] went right at Aakhan walk. That is being
[1351.5s] strategic. Brothers and sisters, I
[1353.4s] remember pastor Elvis preached in the
[1354.8s] morning and made a call and later in the
[1356.9s] evening I also preached together with
[1358.3s] the gentlemen and ladies that were there
[1360.0s] and we made calls. We saw a number of
[1362.1s] people that were streaming in because we
[1364.6s] left our comfort zones and went
[1367.4s] strategically where God's children that
[1369.6s] he desires them to be are that we may
[1372.0s] win them from Christ. And so for us to
[1373.8s] be missionaries, we've got to move from
[1376.2s] comfort zones. Somebody say amen to
[1378.0s] that. We've got to move from comfort
[1380.2s] zones. So the Bible tells me that it was
[1383.4s] about the sixth hour. Now church
[1387.0s] members, what is the sixth hour?
[1392.0s] What is the sixth
[1402.6s] hour? All right. And so the sixth hour
[1405.4s] is actually uh what? Noon. Are we
[1409.4s] together? I know that we're going to
[1411.1s] talk about this Julian calendar and
[1412.6s] everything else that was changed, but
[1413.8s] we're talking about the sixth hour. Now
[1415.8s] brothers and sisters, when do people go
[1418.8s] to fetch water? Do they go in the
[1421.4s] morning, in the evening or in the sixth
[1424.5s] hour? Answer me church members, what
[1426.6s] time?
[1429.4s] Christ was very deliberate because he
[1432.7s] knew that there are people that are
[1435.3s] there is a person that is going to come
[1437.3s] at an odd hour to the right place and
[1442.2s] Christ strategically placed himself
[1444.6s] there that that person might meet him
[1447.0s] there. Allow me to tell us disciples who
[1449.2s] are going to become missionaries today.
[1451.3s] You may now have to go out of the normal
[1455.0s] hours and go to the odd hours to win
[1457.8s] souls for Christ Jesus. Somebody didn't
[1460.6s] say amen for that. And I know the
[1463.2s] reason. I remember a time pastor Khali
[1466.7s] and myself were living here at Parkland
[1469.5s] and uh that time pastor Khal and myself
[1471.5s] was serving Nairobi central church. I
[1473.8s] was called to South South Sudan, Juba to
[1476.1s] do a youth week of prayer. And so,
[1478.1s] Pastor Khali being my neighbor, I told
[1480.2s] him that listen, hey, uh, I can't have
[1482.2s] my wife drive me to the airport at 3:00
[1484.7s] in the night. Allow me to request you to
[1486.7s] drop me to church at 3:00 in the night.
[1489.1s] And so, we woke up at 2:00 and Pastor
[1491.1s] Kio was supposed to drive me to the
[1492.9s] airport so that I can be there on time
[1494.4s] to take my flight to Juba. Brothers and
[1496.6s] sisters, the moment we left the gate
[1498.3s] like this, we saw some customers run
[1500.7s] towards us and they were open knocking
[1503.2s] our doors to come
[1504.7s] in. Church members, don't ask me whether
[1507.0s] we asked them to come into the car. Go
[1509.8s] with me to verse 8. Is that verse
[1513.9s] 8:6? Christ strategically placed himself
[1517.8s] at an odd hour. Now I am not suggesting
[1520.9s] church members that you start getting
[1522.6s] out at night and get into those
[1524.2s] particular places lest you endanger your
[1527.1s] your moral standards. But I'm suggesting
[1529.2s] these brothers and sisters that it looks
[1531.4s] to me that we may have to be very
[1533.3s] deliberate and very strategic that we
[1535.4s] may go to where we can find the group
[1537.9s] that God calls for. Now right across
[1540.4s] this road there is a hospital called
[1542.7s] Coptic. I don't want to go to the
[1544.6s] details but when you go to Coptic church
[1547.3s] uh sorry Coptic hospital you will find
[1549.8s] attendance at some corner I don't want
[1551.4s] to say that corner lest you go there and
[1553.0s] start looking for them and in that
[1555.2s] corner the orthodox priests working in
[1558.0s] that particular hospital took themselves
[1560.5s] at an odd hour and they went and made
[1563.5s] invitations to these particular
[1565.3s] customers and they have now made them
[1567.3s] work at that particular hospital so that
[1569.3s] they may not be able to go to that place
[1571.0s] where they have been. We've got to move
[1573.1s] out of our comfort zones. It's all that
[1575.0s] I'm saying. Let's go to verse 7. The
[1576.5s] Bible says, "A woman of Samaria came to
[1580.3s] draw water." Full stop. And she's coming
[1583.2s] at the sixth hour hiding from the
[1586.2s] multitudes. Then the Bible tells me
[1588.6s] Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink."
[1592.9s] Church members, this who is saying,
[1595.4s] "Give me a drink," is the fountain of
[1597.6s] living waters. This who is saying give
[1600.3s] me a drink is he who commanded Moses to
[1603.2s] hit the rock and hence to talk to the
[1605.2s] rock that it may bring forth water. He
[1607.3s] is he again that provided shade for the
[1610.8s] walking Israelites in the what? At the
[1613.0s] wilderness by day and by night and he
[1614.8s] provided for them. This is he again that
[1617.6s] is saying give me drink. Now let me give
[1620.4s] you another lesson for you to put here
[1622.4s] brothers and sisters. Desire of ages
[1623.9s] save these from that particular chapter.
[1625.8s] Any moment you've got to witness to
[1628.2s] those
[1629.5s] persons, look for a entry point to reach
[1633.5s] out to them. I didn't hear somebody say
[1636.4s] amen to that. Look for an entry point.
[1640.2s] And for Jesus, this desire says that
[1643.0s] this was the key by the which he knew he
[1646.2s] will share the gospel truth to this
[1648.2s] particular lady. The Bible tells me, the
[1650.3s] Bible tells me in that particular verse
[1651.9s] that he says, "Give me a drink." Then
[1654.6s] the Bible in verse 8 says this. For his
[1658.1s] disciples had gone away into the city to
[1661.6s] do what
[1662.7s] church to buy food. Food. Another lesson
[1666.9s] to
[1668.0s] learn. Avoid distractions when you're
[1671.6s] ministering. Avoid distractions when
[1674.0s] you're ministering. Put your fingers in
[1675.4s] verse 8. Go with me to verse 27. Put
[1677.3s] your fingers in verse 8. Uh put go to
[1679.5s] verse 27. What does the Bible say in
[1681.3s] verse 27? It says this.
[1684.2s] And upon the disciples, upon this came
[1688.7s] his disciples, and marveled that he
[1692.6s] talked with the woman. Yet no man said,
[1696.2s] "What seekest thou? Or why talkst thou
[1700.0s] with her?"
[1701.4s] This tells me as you go back to verse 8,
[1704.0s] had Jesus stood there to speak with this
[1707.7s] particular lady when the disciples were
[1710.2s] present, there is a possibility that
[1712.7s] they may have distracted Jesus from
[1715.0s] winning this soul to the kingdom. Avoid
[1718.6s] distractions as you minister. Brothers
[1721.0s] and sisters, go with me to verse 9. The
[1723.2s] Bible tells me that the woman of Samaria
[1725.2s] said to him, "How is it that you being a
[1728.8s] Jew, ask a drink from me, a Samaritan
[1731.9s] woman, for Jews have no dealings with
[1734.1s] the Samaritans?" Listen to me. Another
[1736.2s] lesson for us to learn this afternoon.
[1738.6s] Beware of obstacles and defense
[1741.1s] mechanisms that will come to those that
[1743.2s] you minister to. They are always there
[1745.8s] handy. They will throw them to you one
[1747.8s] after the other and they'll be there
[1749.2s] saying, "Hey, I know you're talking
[1750.6s] about the Sabbath, but listen, Christ
[1752.3s] resurrected on Sunday. I know you're
[1753.9s] talking about this, but I know that
[1755.2s] Christ said, "Let no man judge you
[1757.5s] because of your food, because of what
[1759.0s] you or because of the day." They will be
[1760.7s] there handy to bring to you. And as they
[1762.7s] do that, do what Christ does. He does
[1765.4s] not answer the distractions that has
[1767.7s] been brought ahead. He focuses on what
[1769.8s] he has been uh sent for. He says, "For
[1773.4s] we do not have anything to deal with
[1775.5s] you." But Jesus doesn't go to the
[1777.4s] destruction. Listen to verse 10. Jesus
[1779.4s] answered and said to her, "If you knew
[1782.2s] the gift of God and who it is who says
[1785.0s] to you, give me a drink, you would have
[1787.4s] asked him and he would have given you
[1789.5s] living water." Christ sticks to what he
[1792.9s] had begun. The key to the entry to these
[1795.8s] particular persons. Brothers and
[1796.9s] sisters, listen to me this afternoon.
[1798.4s] Those of you who want to become
[1799.6s] disciples into being missionaries,
[1801.5s] listen to me. Don't ever be taken sway
[1804.2s] by the distractions that come your way,
[1806.4s] focus on what God has sent you to do to
[1810.1s] that particular person. Christ focused
[1812.3s] on the key of entry key that he had.
[1815.7s] Then the Bible says in verse 11, listen
[1817.3s] to this, the woman still wants to take
[1819.0s] him back. This is what we call being
[1822.0s] fixated. And in that fixation, Christ
[1824.6s] does not go there. The Bible tells me in
[1826.6s] verse 11, the woman said to him,
[1829.2s] "Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and
[1832.0s] the well is deep
[1834.0s] wherein, and the well is deep, where
[1837.1s] then do you get that living water? Are
[1839.7s] you greater than our father Jacob, who
[1841.8s] gave us the well, and drank from it
[1843.7s] himself, as well as his sons and
[1845.8s] livestock?" Brothers and sisters, this
[1847.8s] woman is still fixated to certain
[1850.3s] things. I would like to let you know
[1852.2s] brothers and sisters, open your eyes
[1853.8s] through the action of the Holy Spirit
[1855.7s] that there are times men and women out
[1857.9s] there whom the Lord desires that they
[1859.5s] may know the truth will be fixated to
[1861.8s] certain things. Maybe they'll be fixated
[1864.2s] to dress. Maybe they'll be fixated to
[1866.3s] particular cultures. They'll be fixated
[1868.1s] to certain things. But don't be
[1870.2s] distracted to that. Maintain your focus
[1873.0s] on the entry key that you have and that
[1875.1s] is the gospel truth. the spirit himself
[1877.2s] will know how to draw out the hearts to
[1880.4s] himself. Go with me to the next verse.
[1882.2s] Christ says in verse 13 and Jesus
[1884.6s] answered to her, "Whoever drinks of this
[1887.0s] water will thirst again. But whoever
[1889.8s] drinks of the water that I shall give
[1891.6s] him will never thirst. But the water
[1894.7s] that I shall give him will become in him
[1897.0s] a fountain of water springing up into
[1900.4s] everlasting life." This is what Jesus is
[1902.6s] telling this woman. These things that
[1904.4s] you are fixed upon, these things that
[1906.6s] you holding on onto, these things that
[1909.0s] you're priding yourself in, these things
[1911.1s] that you are cherishing, these things
[1913.0s] that you keep holding on dear to
[1914.8s] yourselves. I am going to make these
[1916.7s] things of no effect. I'm going to make
[1918.6s] these things of no impact because
[1920.6s] there's a greater thing that Christ
[1922.6s] wants you to be attached to, brothers
[1924.3s] and sisters. And so he goes to verse 15.
[1926.4s] The Bible says, "The woman said to him,
[1928.7s] "Sir, give me then this water that I may
[1932.2s] never thirst again nor come here to
[1934.2s] draw." She still has not gotten the gist
[1937.6s] of what Christ is telling her. And here
[1940.9s] in comes another lesson for you.
[1943.5s] Patience is a great virtue for any
[1946.8s] missionary winning souls for Christ. I'm
[1949.9s] going to repeat it one more time.
[1951.6s] Patience is a great virtue for any
[1954.4s] missionary who wins souls for Christ.
[1957.0s] There are two things that happen,
[1958.4s] brothers and sisters. Number one, there
[1960.6s] are times you will be disappointed.
[1962.2s] There are times you will be discouraged.
[1963.8s] There are times you will feel low and
[1966.0s] lonely when you're doing some particular
[1968.0s] work for Christ. But I want to let you
[1969.8s] know that Matthew 28 said that though
[1972.2s] you may feel lonely, though you may feel
[1974.3s] so disappointed, there is one who has
[1977.0s] said, "Lo, I will be with you till the
[1980.4s] end of age." There is one missionary who
[1983.0s] went to ch to from England who went to
[1985.0s] China. But I'm going to talk about this
[1986.6s] missionary William Kerry that left uh
[1989.1s] left left his country in the UK and went
[1991.9s] to India. That particular
[1995.2s] gentleman lost a lot of things and not
[1999.5s] only that he lost his family one after
[2004.0s] the other but he still stuck to the idea
[2007.3s] that I know my father that you're the
[2009.8s] one that commissioned me to India to
[2012.2s] this to do this work. At one particular
[2014.9s] time there is a culture in India where
[2018.3s] when your husband dies and you're the
[2023.6s] wife as they are burning the body of
[2026.9s] this particular man at the stakes they
[2030.8s] say you will also be placed at the very
[2034.5s] stakes. You are tied placed at the
[2038.1s] stakes and you die together with your
[2042.8s] husband. Did you hear me church members?
[2046.3s] One time William Kerry had just
[2050.1s] ministered to a particular family and
[2052.6s] this particular woman before they
[2054.3s] converted into she had begun
[2056.3s] understanding and getting to know
[2058.8s] Christianity and as William Kerry visits
[2061.1s] them and visit them one thing led to
[2063.3s] another and this man dies and the
[2066.4s] tradition goes to take its course. They
[2069.5s] go and fetch this particular lady and
[2071.7s] they drag her on the streets taking her
[2074.1s] to the very sticks where they're going
[2075.6s] to burn the what the husband. William
[2078.6s] Kerry came along and he knew that
[2080.8s] persecution was high at that particular
[2082.6s] time. But even that he moved along with
[2085.0s] this lady as he kept on singing a song
[2086.9s] and say all the way my savior leads me.
[2089.8s] All the way I know the Lord is with me.
[2092.2s] Encouraging this particular woman trying
[2093.8s] to stand against this man from doing
[2096.0s] this heinous act. But lo and behold, he
[2099.0s] saw her being wrapped up together and
[2101.4s] placed at the sticks. It is these that
[2103.3s] made William Kerry learn 32 dialect
[2106.5s] languages in India and he translated the
[2109.0s] scriptures into those all those tribes
[2111.6s] and dialects until Christianity became
[2114.7s] well grounded. But as if that's not
[2117.0s] enough, William K was able to lead some
[2119.0s] men whom he had spoken to as lawyers and
[2121.5s] advocates to take a bill to the Congress
[2124.3s] of India and they changed and made a law
[2129.0s] that there is nothing like killing a
[2132.4s] live person with their
[2136.2s] husbands. And so brothers and sisters,
[2138.2s] allow me to let you know here, there are
[2139.9s] moments you'll feel lonely. There are
[2141.1s] moments you'll feel that things have
[2142.8s] gone south, rock bottom. But I'm here to
[2144.8s] let you know that there is he who I say
[2146.6s] I am with you. Let's go to the next
[2148.6s] verse. The Bible says in verse what we
[2150.1s] are now in
[2151.6s] verse. Are you following me? Where are
[2154.4s] we? Are we going to verse 16? Yes. The
[2157.9s] Bible says Jesus said to her, "Go call
[2161.2s] your who?" What does the Bible say? Go
[2163.7s] call your who? Go call your husband. Now
[2167.9s] Jesus began somewhere. He knew where he
[2172.2s] was headed to. and he knew what was
[2174.9s] ailing this particular lady. Allow me to
[2177.8s] let you know brothers and sisters, our
[2179.8s] mission style has never been the best
[2182.5s] some time back. Our approach has
[2185.3s] actually been making people's hearts be
[2187.0s] hardened. And the things that we begin
[2189.2s] by make a strong case against us. And
[2194.2s] look at what Christ is doing here. Even
[2196.4s] though he knows, and permit me to say
[2198.2s] it, make no mistake, brothers and
[2199.4s] sisters, none of us can hide. And this
[2202.4s] revelation that Jesus is having as a as
[2204.6s] a conversation with this woman is is is
[2207.1s] what we call a a a an opening of a a a
[2211.4s] life of this particular lady that she
[2213.8s] thought she hid but Christ knew. Christ
[2216.2s] is trying to tell this lady, I know your
[2219.4s] life in totality. Allow me to let us
[2222.0s] know here brothers and sisters, we
[2224.0s] cannot hide from Christ. He knows our
[2226.7s] lives in
[2228.1s] totality. I don't know whether the
[2229.9s] students you are hearing what I'm
[2231.0s] saying.
[2232.0s] students. Hello students. Are we
[2234.5s] together? Hello
[2236.0s] students. Some of us are struggling in
[2238.4s] our host and in our domitories with
[2240.8s] certain acts and with certain things.
[2242.8s] Allow me to let you know that Christ is
[2245.7s] he who told this Samaritan woman, go
[2248.4s] bring me your husband. He unfolded and
[2250.9s] opened this woman's life. Christ knows
[2253.8s] our lives in totality, brothers and
[2255.6s] sisters. And when he does, hide yourself
[2259.4s] under the rock because when he knows it,
[2261.5s] he knows how to cover you and lift you
[2264.6s] up in due season. The Bible says, "Go
[2267.0s] bring your husband." The woman answered
[2268.5s] and said, "I have no what?" Husband.
[2271.7s] Defense mechanism begins. But he doesn't
[2274.6s] know that he who is speaking to her
[2276.6s] knoweth well this life. Jesus said to
[2279.0s] her, you have said it well that you have
[2280.8s] no husband. You have had five husbands
[2282.9s] and the one whom you love is not your
[2284.7s] husband. He spoke that truly to her.
[2288.2s] Brothers and sisters, I've really
[2289.3s] elaborated that and make emphasis to
[2291.0s] that that Christ knows our lives openly.
[2294.4s] We can never hide from him. The Bible
[2296.2s] says in verse 19, the woman said to her
[2298.4s] to him, "Rather, sir, I perceive that
[2301.0s] you're a prophet. Our fathers worshiped
[2303.6s] on this mountain and you Jews say that
[2305.9s] in Jerusalem is the place where one
[2307.8s] ought to worship." Then Jesus brings
[2310.1s] that clarion statement where I would
[2312.9s] like to let you know brothers and
[2314.2s] sisters even though we are planning to
[2316.5s] make a cathedral and God bless us that
[2318.3s] we may build it. Even though we are many
[2320.8s] of us in this city and even beyond are
[2323.0s] seeking to build churches for the Lord
[2325.0s] and God bless us to build them. But
[2326.9s] Christ makes that clarion statement and
[2328.9s] says, "A time is coming that neither
[2332.2s] here in Jerusalem nor on those mountains
[2335.0s] you will keep attaching yourselves in
[2336.8s] it, but a time is coming when the Lord
[2339.5s] who is God in heaven shall be watched
[2341.7s] worshiped not in particular places but
[2344.4s] the Lord will be worshiped in truth and
[2346.6s] in spirit."
[2349.0s] What is the Lord saying? Sometimes some
[2351.0s] of us have been attachment when you read
[2352.4s] the history of the the temple of Solomon
[2355.0s] where he placed it in Jerusalem. We are
[2357.0s] told he made it to be such a
[2359.9s] spectacle that any person that passed by
[2362.7s] in Jerusalem indeed was saying here a
[2366.9s] temple for the Jews is God. But when
[2370.3s] they looked at the Jews themselves and
[2372.9s] the kind of temple and God that they
[2375.0s] were talking about, they were worlds
[2377.2s] apart.
[2378.7s] Brothers and sisters, there are times we
[2380.7s] have also made a spectacle of the things
[2384.2s] that we own. But we are worlds apart
[2387.6s] from the God that we profess. And
[2390.6s] because of that, Christ comes to break
[2392.2s] that. And he says, "A time is coming."
[2394.3s] Brothers and sisters, a time is going to
[2396.1s] come sooner or later when all these
[2398.2s] things shall be brought down and the
[2399.9s] Lord shall be worshiped. He says, "In
[2402.2s] truth and in spirit." Go with me to
[2404.4s] verse 25. The Bible tells me the woman
[2406.6s] said to him, "I know the Messiah is
[2410.6s] coming who is also called what?" The
[2414.0s] Christ. Jesus at that time knew that it
[2419.1s] is now ripe for me to reveal myself. Now
[2423.2s] listen to me church members. Christ has
[2425.4s] taken this particular disciple step by
[2428.1s] step, step by step. He has made sure
[2432.2s] that he has trained this person so well
[2435.0s] that out of that training he now has
[2438.4s] reached a moment he has to reveal
[2440.0s] himself and the moment he reveals
[2443.1s] himself something radical is going to
[2446.1s] happen. Then Jesus said in verse 26 I
[2449.7s] who speak to you what did the church
[2452.6s] say? I am
[2455.5s] he. I should have had an out amen.
[2459.3s] You know this he is the very one who
[2461.9s] said I am the Lord right in Genesis. It
[2466.2s] is he who spoke to Abraham. It is he who
[2469.0s] spoke to Moses. It is he that has spoken
[2471.4s] to all these disciple I mean prophets
[2473.1s] all these and is now revealing himself.
[2476.2s] Listen to the lesson that I would like
[2477.5s] you to put on that particular first
[2479.2s] part. Brothers and sisters, the first
[2481.0s] lesson is don't be in a hurry to bring
[2485.7s] the hard revelation before you lay the
[2488.7s] platform with the softer
[2491.4s] revelations. Did somebody hear what I
[2493.4s] said? You begin from milk, you go to the
[2497.2s] bones. You begin from the softer aspects
[2499.4s] as you draw men to God. And you, my
[2502.6s] brothers and sisters, young and old,
[2504.0s] that are here this afternoon, God has
[2506.8s] already already laid the foundation in
[2509.1s] the first part of the private mission
[2512.5s] work. He has finished it. Allow me to
[2514.8s] take you quickly to the public
[2517.4s] evangelism, which is in verse 27. Go
[2519.9s] with me to verse 27. The Bible says,
[2521.8s] "And at that time," so as I go to verse
[2525.0s] 27, this is what I'm saying. as we go
[2527.3s] forth to make missionaries for Christ.
[2529.4s] Begin far, come closer and reveal
[2532.2s] Christ. Begin from far, begin them
[2535.0s] slowly and bring Christ. The ultimate
[2537.8s] revelation of the truth that we preach
[2539.7s] is nothing else but Christ lifted. Jesus
[2542.2s] ever said that when I shall be lifted,
[2544.6s] I'll seek to draw all men to ourselves.
[2547.0s] We are not calling people to church, the
[2549.0s] seventh day Adventist church. We are not
[2550.8s] calling people to just be Christian in
[2553.0s] Christianity. We are not just calling
[2555.0s] people to become seventh day Adventist.
[2556.8s] Nay, we are calling people to become
[2559.7s] disciples of Jesus Christ. And as they
[2562.6s] become disciples of Jesus Christ,
[2564.3s] they'll be grounded in the truth that we
[2567.1s] teach that is called the Bible truth as
[2569.6s] the seventh day Adventist church. Christ
[2571.4s] was exalted at that particular time. And
[2573.8s] now after that verse 27 says, we had
[2576.5s] read it the B before the Bible says and
[2579.1s] at this point his disciples came. Let me
[2582.5s] ask the church if you are following me.
[2585.0s] Has he already finished winning a soul
[2587.8s] for himself? Has destruction now come?
[2591.4s] Has destruction come? Do you think the
[2593.8s] destruction is going to do anything from
[2596.4s] what has been grounded in this
[2597.9s] particular person? No. Allow me to say
[2600.9s] this. The fastest growing religion in
[2604.8s] the world as I've told you is Islam.
[2608.1s] One of the things they do they have got
[2609.5s] about five things that they do as they
[2611.8s] begin converting many but there these
[2613.8s] two that I want to talk about the first
[2615.3s] one is they marry many wives that they
[2617.5s] may get very many children so that many
[2619.0s] of them can become that particular
[2620.2s] religion that's
[2622.4s] one why are people laughing you want us
[2624.6s] to say we marry very many
[2628.7s] wives nay but number two what they do is
[2632.2s] they make sure that the children that
[2634.1s] have been have been born they well
[2637.6s] drilled and grilled and drilled and they
[2641.1s] make sure that the Quran has remained in
[2643.8s] this particular mind that when these
[2645.7s] fellows have become big and when they
[2647.8s] become who they are, they find it
[2650.2s] difficult to leave their religion. Now
[2652.7s] listen to me brothers and sisters, I
[2655.0s] dare say this. We've got to up our game
[2658.3s] in lifting Christ in our families. We've
[2660.9s] got to up our game in the ministry that
[2663.0s] we do. Those of us who are elders, those
[2665.3s] of us who are deacons and we are
[2666.5s] visiting these schools, allow us to go
[2668.5s] through the fundamentals and the truth
[2670.5s] that is in this Bible. Ground it upon
[2672.6s] our children that the day that is going
[2674.7s] to come and Christ will lift up a spirit
[2677.5s] that will want to sweep away this
[2679.3s] ripening harvest. May these young people
[2681.1s] that are here be well grounded in the
[2683.5s] truth that they will have a standard in
[2686.0s] them that the enemy will not sweep them
[2687.8s] away in Jesus name. and our young people
[2690.2s] we are looking upon you that as you come
[2692.2s] forth where are grounded today as we
[2693.6s] baptize some of you now know that you
[2695.4s] become a missionary you also go to
[2697.4s] places I remember when I was a chaplain
[2698.8s] in Yuri I remember young people who are
[2701.0s] coming out from various universities and
[2703.1s] when they finish their work we have what
[2704.6s] we call the public campus ministries
[2706.2s] here when they come together during
[2708.2s] holidays they don't go to their homes
[2710.3s] two weeks they're out there doing
[2711.9s] mission work and let me tell you this I
[2714.1s] have told this to the church leaders
[2715.8s] that today the fastest missionaries that
[2719.1s] we have today are the young people in
[2721.6s] our campuses and in our high schools.
[2723.4s] Why? They are planting more churches
[2725.4s] than our churches are planting churches.
[2728.2s] Somebody didn't hear what I said. The
[2730.2s] three angels message with its power is
[2732.5s] being spread more faster in our
[2734.4s] universities and in high schools, in our
[2736.2s] hospitals and other places than it is
[2738.3s] happening in our churches. Why? Many of
[2740.7s] us in our churches want to come come and
[2743.1s] sit at ease in Zion. Listen to a sermon
[2745.6s] whether it is powerful or not and get
[2747.3s] out there and sit and continue that
[2749.7s] cycle. Those are the rituals and
[2751.7s] ceremonies that Christ wants to break
[2753.4s] forth because he wants every one of us
[2755.7s] to be anioned with the Holy Spirit
[2757.5s] because from disciples we've got to
[2759.1s] become missionaries for Jesus Christ. Is
[2761.7s] somebody hearing what I'm saying this
[2763.0s] afternoon? And so Jesus says at that
[2765.0s] particular time the destruction has come
[2766.6s] but this woman cannot be shaken.
[2768.9s] Brothers and sisters, I pray to God,
[2770.4s] especially for our young people, when
[2771.8s] you shall leave the port holes over your
[2773.3s] institutions, don't be shaken when you
[2775.3s] shall enter into the universities
[2776.9s] because let me warn you in the
[2778.6s] universities, you'll find the freedom
[2779.9s] that you can't find out here. But when
[2781.9s] so you enter the universities and we
[2783.7s] pray you all go there, brothers and
[2785.7s] sisters, young as you are, be grounded
[2788.5s] in the faith that you have been brought
[2790.8s] up in be grounded. You will go and find
[2794.4s] Nairobi University has got Ya. You'll go
[2796.7s] and
[2797.6s] find J Kenyata University has got J
[2800.2s] Kusta. You'll go and find Kenyat
[2802.2s] University has got the Kasers everywhere
[2804.2s] you'll go. You will find Adventist
[2806.8s] students that are geared toward doing
[2809.0s] the work of God and join and enlist
[2811.1s] yourself and I'll let you know you'll
[2812.8s] find yourselves during holiday season
[2814.5s] especially you who are going to be
[2815.6s] baptized today that you'll start
[2817.4s] ministering and winning soul s so for
[2819.0s] Jesus Christ. Listen to those this woman
[2821.2s] does. And this is what I want us to
[2823.0s] conclude with. The Bible tells me that
[2825.4s] as the disciples are marveling and
[2827.3s] asking, he's speaking to this woman and
[2829.1s] they are thinking about how he's
[2830.4s] speaking to this woman who number one is
[2832.5s] a what? A Samaritan and then a woman.
[2836.0s] Verse 28, the Bible tells me the woman
[2839.5s] then left her port and went her way into
[2843.4s] the city and said to the men, church
[2846.6s] members, allow me to make an emphasis on
[2848.2s] that particular verse. The Bible tells
[2850.1s] me the woman left her
[2853.0s] what? Where is the port normally
[2856.9s] put? Where is the port
[2859.2s] put? Uh, no. Let me not ask the young
[2862.3s] children. Let me ask the older ones cuz
[2864.3s] they may not even be understanding what
[2865.6s] a port is. Where was the port put? Mrs.
[2867.7s] Ross Mill Rosen
[2869.7s] Okumu on the head. Could you kindly
[2874.4s] stand? Demonstrate how you are going to
[2877.5s] the river. Mrs. says, "Kumu, did you
[2879.2s] ever go to the river for water?" Oh,
[2881.0s] okay. Fine. You don't look like you did.
[2883.0s] Oh, you did. Demonstrate how you used to
[2885.0s] carry the
[2886.8s] pot. Place it. Place place your Bible
[2889.1s] there. Okay, fine. So, the
[2892.9s] Bible
[2895.2s] chini. Now, Mrs. Okumu, this is what
[2897.8s] this woman does all along. She has been
[2901.4s] carrying a heavy load as he's speaking
[2903.5s] with Jesus Christ. When Christ has
[2906.1s] finished placing something in her heart,
[2908.7s] she says, "Enough is enough." She put
[2911.6s] the pot down. Put the pot down. Start
[2914.3s] going for mission
[2917.2s] work. Now you can come back, Mrs.
[2920.0s] Okumu. Brothers and sisters, I want you
[2922.4s] to turn to your neighbor and ask them,
[2924.1s] "What port are you holding?"
[2928.4s] Please ask them like you mean it. What
[2929.8s] pot are you holding?
[2932.7s] Now tell them this. Put the port down.
[2936.2s] Put the pot down. Go for mission. Go for
[2939.4s] mission. Put them Put the pot down. Put
[2942.9s] the pot down. And go for mission.
[2946.4s] Some of us, brothers and sisters, the
[2948.3s] pots that we are having up here could be
[2951.1s] our careers. Some of us the pots that we
[2953.4s] are holding up here could be our wealth.
[2955.0s] Some of us the pots that we are handling
[2956.7s] up here could be whatever thing that it
[2958.6s] is. Jesus after he has impressed the
[2961.2s] truth upon this lady. This lady puts the
[2963.9s] pot down and she goes for mission work.
[2966.7s] Somebody say amen to that. Continue.
[2968.9s] Let's continue and finish. The Bible
[2970.2s] says in verse 29, he went and spoke to
[2974.4s] the men who had been the subject persons
[2978.4s] that have been messing up this lady.
[2980.6s] Mention it to me. Who have been the
[2982.8s] subject persons messing up this lady?
[2985.0s] Whom does he turn fast to?
[2987.8s] The Bible says he went and spoke to the
[2990.3s] man and he says, "Come and do what? See,
[2995.4s] a man who told me all things that I ever
[2999.4s] did." Then she says, "Could this be the
[3002.4s] Christ?" Listen to me, church members.
[3005.0s] You don't have to know the sanctuary
[3006.3s] message in totality. You do not have to
[3008.5s] know the the the the the stages of
[3011.2s] salvation in totality. You do not have
[3013.4s] to know the the the what the trinity in
[3015.9s] totality. You do not have to know the
[3018.2s] this the great controversy theme in
[3019.9s] totality. But this thing I know. Go and
[3024.4s] tell them to meet the Jesus that has met
[3026.6s] your life. That's all the message that
[3028.8s] you have to do. Come and see the man
[3031.4s] that has revealed to me everything.
[3033.1s] Verse 30, the Bible says, "Then they
[3034.8s] went out of the city and came to him."
[3038.2s] Let me put another stamp there and say
[3040.8s] this. When you move in the spirit of
[3043.8s] Christ and Christ is leading you and you
[3046.9s] share Christ, you get people out of
[3049.4s] their comfort zones. The Bible tells me
[3052.0s] they moved out from where they were.
[3054.2s] That is verse 30. And they went to him.
[3056.9s] Brothers and sisters, call men to the
[3059.2s] prince Emmanuel. Call men to this high
[3062.1s] priest. Call men to this savior that has
[3065.0s] died for the entire world. Call men not
[3067.4s] to anywhere else, but call men to Christ
[3070.1s] Jesus himself. The Bible tells me in
[3071.6s] verse 31, in the meantime, his disciples
[3074.0s] urged him, saying, "Rabbi, eat
[3076.0s] distraction." Number two, there are
[3078.5s] certain things that may be necessities
[3080.4s] in our lives, but they are not
[3081.8s] priorities in our
[3083.5s] lives. No, somebody didn't hear what I
[3085.6s] said. There are certain things that may
[3087.5s] be necessities, but they are not
[3089.0s] priorities in our lives. Christ says
[3090.4s] this in verse 32, "But he said to them,
[3093.0s] I have food to eat of which you do not
[3094.9s] know." Therefore, the disciples say to
[3096.4s] one another, "Has anyone brought
[3097.8s] anything to him to eat?" Then Jesus said
[3099.8s] to him, to them, verse 34, "My food is
[3103.3s] to do the will of him who sent me and to
[3107.5s] finish his
[3108.7s] work, do you not know or do you not see?
[3111.6s] They are still for months and then comes
[3113.4s] the harvest. Behold, I say to you, lift
[3115.7s] up your eyes and look at the fields, for
[3117.8s] they are already white, white for
[3120.2s] harvest." And brothers and sisters, this
[3121.9s] is where I want to make a post and say
[3123.3s] this. The statistics I gave you, tell me
[3126.3s] this. The world population is moving
[3129.8s] more faster in terms of birth than it is
[3133.2s] moving faster in terms of conversion and
[3135.5s] people knowing Christ
[3137.2s] Jesus. Men and women out there are
[3139.8s] thirsty to know the truth. When you see
[3142.7s] what's happening in Gaza, when you see
[3144.6s] what's happening between Russia and
[3145.8s] Ukraine, when you see what's happening
[3147.3s] round and about us, it tells us of this
[3149.5s] one thing. The world is now white and
[3152.6s] ripe for the harvest. And it's calling
[3155.4s] upon missionaries like you and myself.
[3157.6s] That's why he says, "Lift up your eyes.
[3159.8s] Your eyes have been so much down here
[3161.4s] below. Your eyes have been so much down
[3163.1s] here below. We can only move across and
[3164.9s] go to this other church. We can only
[3166.2s] move across and go to that other
[3167.3s] church." Christ is saying, "Lift up your
[3169.4s] eyes higher and see the harvest that is
[3172.3s] out there waiting." Then the Bible says
[3175.2s] in verse 36, "And he who reaps receives
[3178.0s] wages and gathers fruit for eternal
[3179.7s] life, that both he who sws and he who
[3182.1s] reaps may rejoice together. For in this
[3184.2s] saying is true, one sows and one another
[3187.4s] reaps. I sent you to reap that for which
[3190.4s] you had not labored. Others have labored
[3192.7s] and you have entered into their labors.
[3194.8s] Which takes me to this last one that I
[3196.8s] gave to you here. Brothers and sisters,
[3198.7s] there is a QR code that I gave you here.
[3202.2s] I want you to take it out. Now, I gave
[3204.6s] you this QR code and I would like
[3207.0s] the communication team, please, could
[3209.5s] you put it on the screens? This is the
[3211.9s] only time the pastor can tell you to
[3213.7s] pull out your
[3217.7s] phone. Are you with there with me?
[3219.8s] Church members, those ones who are out
[3222.2s] there, I hope you received the QR code.
[3225.4s] I now want you to scan it because I've
[3229.4s] got ministries that I put there from A
[3232.1s] to Z. No one in this church will ever
[3235.8s] sit idle because with those ministries,
[3239.3s] please tick the box. Please tick the box
[3242.2s] of the closest ministry that is closer
[3244.6s] to what you know you can do. I put them
[3247.0s] from A to Z. Young people do the
[3251.7s] same. And it can go around that you may
[3254.9s] be able to tick the box. It's right
[3256.8s] here. Right here says tick the box of
[3259.8s] the ministries. There are about 26 of
[3262.0s] them.
[3263.0s] The chaplain who are here will let you
[3264.6s] know that they are doing hospital
[3266.3s] ministry, prison ministry and the
[3267.6s] others. But there are 26 ministries are
[3269.3s] put there. Please tick the box. I want
[3271.4s] you to do that right now. But why?
[3272.5s] Because evangelism department will
[3274.6s] cluster these things together through
[3276.5s] online and other places because every
[3278.3s] one of us is going to be a missionary
[3279.5s] for Christ. So look at that particular
[3281.2s] QR code, scan it and pick a ministry for
[3284.8s] yourself. I'm going to give you a minute
[3286.8s] to do that please.
[3295.1s] [Music]
[3310.2s] You are on the QR code. You've pulled it
[3312.6s] up. It has brought 26. Anyone has seen
[3315.4s] that? If you have seen that, say yes.
[3319.1s] Uh
[3321.1s] oh, there are 26 of
[3323.9s] them. Now it is giving you a place where
[3326.2s] you'll tick. As you tick that, it will
[3330.2s] cluster you all together. So there are
[3332.4s] those who will be in the prayer
[3333.3s] ministry. There are those who will be in
[3334.6s] the street ministry. There are those who
[3336.0s] will be in the on the way home ministry.
[3338.4s] There are those who will be in the
[3339.3s] helping or gift ministry. There are
[3341.2s] several ministry there. There are 26 of
[3342.8s] them. Please stick one. And as you find
[3345.4s] that, you'll find yourself. And those of
[3347.0s] you who are in the particular
[3348.2s] ministries, that's okay. You don't have
[3349.4s] to do that. But I'm giving this to
[3351.0s] anyone who now hasn't ever known where
[3353.6s] they are. It is right there. Do it. And
[3355.8s] once you've done, listen to verse 38 as
[3358.1s] I finish. It says, "And many of the
[3360.8s] Samaritans of that city believed in him
[3363.5s] because of the word of the woman who
[3365.8s] testified, he told me all that I ever
[3368.2s] did." Now, let me give you the geography
[3370.2s] of Samaria. Samaria had a population of
[3373.1s] about 1.1 million and 1.1 million the
[3378.2s] city was like the current Nairobi
[3381.5s] metropolitan 65 kilometers from up north
[3385.4s] down south 56 kilometers from west to
[3389.7s] east brothers and sisters that is like
[3392.1s] saying you've come from Kikuyo all the
[3395.4s] way to Mombasa road ai river and you've
[3398.0s] moved from rangai all the way to juja
[3401.9s] that particular area. It tells me that
[3405.5s] this woman alone covered the entire
[3410.1s] metropolitan of Nairobi. Today I know we
[3412.4s] are about 4 million plus we moving into
[3414.2s] 5 million. Statistics are telling us
[3415.7s] that. But those days Samaria was 1.1
[3418.1s] million. It tells me in verse 39 and
[3421.9s] many of the Samaritans of that city
[3424.4s] believed in him because of the word of
[3428.0s] that woman. Church members, let me let
[3431.0s] you know here today. Whether you want to
[3433.3s] keep sitting at ease in Zion, Christ
[3435.5s] does not need all of us. Christ needs
[3437.8s] only one person to stand and they will
[3440.6s] make a testimony to win the entire
[3443.3s] metropolitan. How many does Christ need
[3445.4s] church members? One. Could that be you?
[3449.0s] Could that be myself? So when the
[3450.8s] Samaritans had come to him, so she has
[3453.0s] drawn men to Christ. But when they reach
[3455.5s] at Christ, the Bible tells us they urged
[3457.6s] him to stay with them and he stayed an
[3460.3s] extra two days. Church members, there
[3463.8s] are moments when Christ, we have to
[3465.5s] plead with him to stay a little longer
[3467.1s] in our homes. There are times we've got
[3469.2s] to plead with him to stay a little
[3470.4s] longer in our nation. There are times
[3472.3s] we've got to plead with him to stay a
[3473.9s] little longer with our children. Stay a
[3476.1s] little longer that they may behold your
[3478.2s] goodness. They say, "Behold," he stayed
[3480.4s] two more days. Verse 241 the Bible says
[3483.0s] and many more believed because now not
[3486.2s] of the woman but because of the word.
[3490.2s] Church members lift up the word and it
[3492.4s] shall draw men to Christ. When they said
[3494.3s] to the now then they said to the woman
[3497.0s] now we believe not because of what you
[3500.4s] said for we ourselves have heard him and
[3504.5s] we know that this indeed is the Christ
[3507.7s] the savior of the world. Somebody say
[3509.6s] amen to that. And so church members this
[3512.4s] afternoon, allow me to say these things.
[3515.8s] When we become missionaries for Christ
[3519.0s] and move men and women to Christ, he
[3522.3s] himself shall turn their hearts around
[3524.4s] to himself and ground them, but the
[3527.4s] enemy will never sweep them away from
[3529.3s] them.
[3531.3s] Let me see that one person that is
[3533.5s] saying today, let that one person be me.
[3539.4s] That one person that is saying it
[3541.0s] doesn't have to be the entire church.
[3542.6s] Let that person be me. I want Christ to
[3545.4s] enlist me that I may become a part of
[3548.0s] the missionaries. Let that person be me.
[3551.0s] You stand now. Last week we had a
[3553.8s] people, God bless you. Last week we had
[3555.6s] a people that gave their lives in town
[3558.7s] and some of them looked for us during
[3560.4s] the week and they were coming here and
[3562.3s] they are saying we want to know more.
[3564.3s] Thank you for those that are standing.
[3565.6s] They're saying enlist me. Enlist me,
[3567.6s] Christ, now that I've known my gift,
[3569.9s] God, make me a part of your ministry. If
[3572.6s] you're there, please stand. I'm saying
[3573.8s] make me one. Thank you. Thank you, my
[3575.4s] young friend. We're standing and those
[3576.8s] who are standing. Thank you for those
[3577.8s] who are standing. And you're saying
[3579.0s] today, God, make me a part of your
[3582.0s] missionaries for you. You're saying we
[3584.1s] want to make a difference. We want to
[3585.7s] make a difference in our places where we
[3587.1s] are either in our homes, in our estates,
[3589.6s] in our workplaces, whatever it is. So if
[3592.0s] I am working in a particular company,
[3593.8s] make me that one person to turn that
[3595.5s] company around. If you're making me
[3598.1s] living in an estate that doesn't know
[3599.5s] you, make me that one person that I may
[3601.8s] turn that estate around. If I am in
[3603.8s] Alliance High School, make me that one
[3605.8s] student that will make the entire school
[3607.9s] know that here comes a God. If I am in
[3610.8s] Mangu High, make me that one student.
[3613.4s] Make me that one student. Please, as
[3615.4s] they sing that first stanza, I'd like to
[3617.5s] pray for those ones who have stood. And
[3619.6s] then I'll be calling my colleague,
[3621.4s] Pastor Elvis, to come and uh bring the
[3624.4s] baptismal candidates that they may also
[3628.1s] join with us as we prepare them for
[3629.4s] baptism. Thank you for standing. For
[3631.0s] those that are saying, I want to be that
[3632.2s] one person. I want to be that one
[3634.7s] person. I want to be that one person. I
[3638.7s] want to be that one person to make a
[3640.0s] difference, to make a change. God bless
[3641.2s] you. God bless you. Thank you very much.
[3643.4s] those who are standing for you. I'll
[3645.5s] pray for you. I'll pray for you. Please
[3647.4s] sing. Keep singing. Please come. Come.
[3650.1s] Let me pray for you. A special prayer
[3651.3s] and then you'll exit back to your seats.
[3653.0s] Those that have stood. May Christ indeed
[3655.3s] make you the missionaries that he
[3656.9s] desires to be. Those of you who have
[3658.2s] stood, you
[3659.2s] come. You
[3661.4s] [Music]
[3665.2s] come. And in the event that some of you
[3667.8s] probably have never been baptized and
[3669.4s] you want to join the team that is going
[3670.6s] to be baptized probably not today
[3672.5s] probably in the future you come too. I'm
[3674.3s] going to make a special prayer for you
[3675.6s] and with you. Please come too. Here
[3678.7s] cometh God's children that are heeding
[3680.5s] the call and they're saying I want to be
[3682.4s] that person that want to make a
[3683.8s] difference. I want to be that person
[3685.7s] that will make a difference. Thank you
[3687.4s] for coming.
[3690.2s] [Music]
[3707.4s] I can see there are some that are
[3708.5s] walking from outside. Don't feel shy to
[3710.2s] come. Please come. I'm going to make a
[3712.1s] special prayer that God may anoint these
[3714.7s] brothers and sisters with the anction of
[3717.0s] the Holy Spirit that you may go out
[3718.5s] there to minister for souls for his
[3720.2s] sake.
[3721.8s] Christ wants us to move from being
[3723.6s] disciples to being missionaries for him.
[3726.6s] 369 Bringing in the
[3730.5s] shoes. Psalm
[3739.9s] 369. 369.
[3743.0s] [Music]
[3753.0s] Sowing in the morning, sowing seeds of
[3757.6s] kindness, seowing in the noon time and
[3761.8s] the new
[3763.3s] year, waiting for the
[3766.4s] harvest at the time of reaping.
[3770.2s] We shall come
[3772.2s] rejoicing, bringing in the
[3775.2s] shield, bringing in the
[3778.2s] shield, bringing in the
[3781.2s] shield. We shall come
[3784.2s] rejoicing, bringing in the
[3787.2s] sh. Bringing in the
[3790.1s] shield, bringing in the shield.
[3794.2s] We shall come rej.
[3797.3s] [Music]
[3797.9s] [Applause]
[3800.3s] Thank you very much. Thank you very
[3802.6s] much. Let's all be upstanding. Those of
[3804.2s] us who are out there, let's all be
[3813.2s] upstanding. with all heads bowed, with
[3815.5s] all eyes
[3818.3s] closed. There are those that are boldly
[3820.5s] moved up front because they have heeded
[3822.0s] the call that they may want to become
[3823.7s] missionaries for
[3825.1s] Christ. I raise my hand and stretch it
[3827.8s] forth to you and ask for a special
[3831.0s] anointing from the Holy Spirit. Father,
[3835.0s] you have said that they that come unto
[3837.7s] me, I shall in no wise cast them away.
[3841.0s] There are those who have heeded the call
[3842.5s] that they may, like the Samaritan woman,
[3845.6s] be instruments to be used when the Holy
[3849.3s] Spirit will have taken captive their
[3851.0s] hearts and minds to win souls for the
[3853.7s] kingdom. And so I pray, heavenly father,
[3857.0s] that you may open our eyes to see the
[3858.7s] need of the moment and we may join hands
[3862.0s] together as commissioners for you
[3864.3s] because you've commanded us to go. Many
[3867.0s] a times we have sat at ease in Zion.
[3869.8s] Many a times we have sat not knowing
[3871.9s] that there is an urgent call of the hour
[3873.9s] for missionaries that will go forth out
[3875.7s] there and win souls for you. We have
[3879.0s] some in the prisons. We have some in the
[3880.6s] schools. We have some in hospitals. We
[3882.5s] have some in the streets. We have some
[3883.8s] in our workplaces. And Christ, you're
[3886.0s] calling upon us and saying, "I would
[3887.8s] like you to be my missionary out there."
[3891.7s] And Father, I pray they that have heeded
[3895.5s] the call, please grant them an
[3897.9s] outpouring of the Holy Spirit in verity
[3900.4s] and permit that they may touch lives
[3902.6s] like the life of the Samaritan woman
[3904.5s] touched the lives of many that they may
[3907.0s] be worn to your kingdom. Thank you this
[3909.6s] day, my Lord, for each one of us has
[3911.2s] been enlisted in this mission work.
[3913.4s] There's none to be called or to be idle
[3915.8s] in the cause of God. We have all been
[3918.3s] called that we may join our efforts
[3920.2s] together to win souls for the kingdom.
[3923.0s] And as you seek to tell us, soon you're
[3926.4s] bringing your kingdom home. We pray that
[3928.6s] we may be a part of those that shall
[3930.2s] bring these fallen brothers and sisters
[3932.4s] back home. And make your truth known to
[3934.9s] many that indeed just like the Samaritan
[3937.6s] woman did and this man and women were
[3939.9s] able to say, "Now we are believed not
[3941.9s] because of your word, but we're believed
[3943.9s] because Christ has revealed himself to
[3946.2s] us. May that be the testimony we shall
[3948.3s] hear of many of these that shall go out
[3950.5s] there to
[3952.9s] minister. Thank you heavenly father for
[3954.9s] thouast heard and answered our prayer.
[3957.8s] Continue to use us mightily for the
[3959.6s] cause that you've called us for and our
[3962.3s] church members. May the Lord bless you
[3964.9s] and keep you. May the Lord lift up his
[3967.8s] countenance upon each one of you and be
[3969.8s] gracious to you. May he cause his face
[3973.0s] to shine upon you and grant you peace.
[3976.2s] peace now and forever. In his name we
[3979.4s] pray. Amen. Go forth in the power and
[3981.8s] the spirit of God to minister in his
[3983.3s] behalf. In Jesus name we pray. Amen.
[3986.8s] Please you may be seated. All the
[3988.2s] baptismal candidates, you may want to
[3989.5s] remain