Title: Sermon || Day 7 || Where Nations are Born || Pr. Godswill T.K Mensah
Video ID: UFrjzbPL02g
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UFrjzbPL02g
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
Good evening. That's a weak one. Sorry. Good evening. We welcome you to day number what? Seven of our week-long project with campus ministries. Let's bow our heads and let's whisper a prayer again. Father in heaven, speak to all of us and give us a listening ear and heart. For we have asked in Jesus's name. Amen. as I always do. It was Jesus himself who said, "If you continue in my words, then you are my disciples indeed and you shall know the truth and the truth shall set you free. If the Son set you free, you will be free indeed." Can someone say an amen out there? Amen. I make to you four promises. Promise number one is the Bible shall be the bedrock of our study. And the reason is the Bible means what it says and says just what it means. Promise number two, you are going to be enlightened irrespective of who you are. Promise number three, you are going to be challenged to make the most important decision of your life. And promise number four, our lives, your life and mine will never be the same. Our subject or theme for the entire week is called charged. Commissioned. Called. Charged. Commissioned. Called with an assignment. Charged with a message and an impact. permission to change and influence the world. So throughout the week we have been attempting day number one we dealt with the forgotten battlefield why campus ministries hold the future of the church. Day number two we dealt with blueprint for a movement heaven's vision for campus missions. Day number three we dealt with loss in plain sigh. Why disciplehip is the only defense. Day number four we dealt with from funds to fellowship the cost of true disciplehip. And day number five and six we looked at the part one and two of invading the intellectual jungle turning secular campuses into spiritual land paths. And for this evening, we title it, where nations are born, the sacred assignment of campus ministries. Take note. I'm going to make some difficult statements this evening. I pray God will give you grace to take them. Point number one, the general conference m uh theme itself is mission beyond boundaries. Now, evangelism is not just preaching the gospel or having a Bible study. And I'm going to deplore it. There is much more to evangelism. Evangelism is not only the declaration of the of the three angels messages we call them. One of the reason the world is not listening to us is what I am going to share this evening. We if you are on campus we are not talking about campus ministries only so that you will be able to give a bible study on the sanctuary you will be able to give a bible study on the investigative judgment there are various layers of evangelism and this is what I'm sharing today is part of what adventism believes but in many churches in many fields in many conferences unions and division and many student on campus do not understand holistic outreach. Let me make another point. Ministry of healing Ellen White says Christ method alone will bring true success and then we dealt with it yesterday. So for this night nations are born on campus. If you watch across the continent Africa, you will see field dirtiness problems here and there. There are good things about our continent. Look, those are Africans trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea in search of greener pastures. These are younger brothers, abledbody men who were caught treated with inhumane treatment. In fact, the Guardian in 2017 made a compelling case for say you go around even in Africa, you experience a lot of xenophobic attacks. I was thinking that when we got to 2018, 2019, we were told that the 400 years of the slave trade, so the first time slaves left the shores of West Africa, uh, precisely Ghana and went into Europe and North America, 2018, 2019 marks exactly 400 years. And we taught in the Bible 40 years, 40 days, 400 years mark a season of liberation. So Africa will experience a renaissance, a new dimension. Situations are getting worse. Hear me. If we do not contextualize this everlasting gospel to the social, political and economic needs of Africans, we will be here with our children and our wives and our disloyal husbands. Let me say it one more time. Any form of evangelism that is devoid of the social, cultural and the political needs of the people is not evangelism holistically in itself. We will be tickling ourselves. In the 1900 Christianity in Africa was very minimal. By 202,000 Africans population of Christians surge by 2020 Africa became the headquarters of Christianity. The mecca of Christianity is Africa. Not North America, not Europe, not South America. The largest adherent of Christianity across the world is in Africa. And the question is why is it that we have a lot of people talking about Christianity yet our qualitative lives have not changed. Quite frankly sometimes we are not taken serious as a people. We have a message 7th day Adventist is the remnant of Bible prophecy. No doubt. Revelation chapter 3 after the loudian church no other church emerge. Now the world is not listening to us enough. And the reason quite frankly is that our evangelistic approach they are not the best. Yesterday I talked about couple of them but this evening this presentation is not just for the student. It is for the professionals those who call themselves ar women ministry youth ministry and all this ministry without incorporating this component to our evangelistic ethos we will go nowhere. Hear me on this continent the riches of Africa is not in the soil. Someone says it is on the soil. Today the people we are to give the everlasting message to they have lost their sense of purpose. They have lost their sense of identity. Many Africans especially young Africans have lost their sense of definition of leadership. Africans, many young people do not know the value to life. We can't tell the sense of significance. Many African young people have lost their sense of respect. You watch the African continent quite carefully. They don't know their heritage. Many young people and professionals do not know their selfimage. There is no self-confidence. There is no self-esteem. There is no self direction or sense of direction. There is no self-conviction. So you watch this is the continent and in this continent we have been called about 19% of the world's population now about 1.4 1.6 6 million by some data Africa is called or we are called to minister in this place and the question is do we know what is happening on the continent you can't minister to a people based on ignorance for example if they ask many 7th day Adventist young people do you know sorry do you know about the agenda 2063 Three. No. In 2013, African leaders gathered around Adis Sababa and they decided that they want to shape an agenda that would champion and challenge and change Africa. 2013 the AU the African Union was was 50 years now. So another 50 years was added. They built a certain framework that this is the Africa we want in 50 years. In fact, as we speak now, it is 12 years since that initiative was done. You cannot talk about evangelism in Africa without understanding where the nations are going. What is the policy direction? How do we leverage it? Those days of evangelism they are over. So for example what are and you the university student you are the one who will go to the local churches and ask this program we want to do how does it fit into the agenda 2063 we are in a continent we are not an island on our own we are not in our own cocoons but is the same thing the same music the same song the same method no it cannot be young people in fact if I were to have time I will have distilled the agenda 2063 and its impact and how it can shape evangelism. Then there is what we call on the continent the continental youth consultation forum. Chances are that many African young people do not know about its goal its place and how it can be leveraged. To put it quite frankly we are not in touch with the well. So when we are doing evangelism planning activities, it's not backed by data. It's not backed by science. And I can be bold to say it's not backed by the Holy Spirit. So it's it's I it's foolishness sometimes. And you the university student, you go to your local churches, it's the same. No, it cannot be. something must be done about it. And now there is a new emergence we see around the continent. There are some individuals who come and tell us that Christianity is useless and they argue it passionately and quite frankly sometimes we don't know what to do. Hear me. The foundations of universities was by the church. Christianity is not useless to the community. Hear me loud. The Christian church founded the first universities in Europe. Oxford University was a Christian university. University of Paris to educate the clergy and to promote knowledge. So nobody should intimidate you because you are a Christian. Listen, Oxford was a Christian university. the Harvard which is now claimed as am I a top class school. It was a Christian school. Check it out. In fact in if you read the book the Christ looking for God or finding God at Harvard published in 2007. Kelberg or Kre says in the year 1643 the motto of Harvard was Veritas. Veritas means truth. In the year 1650, the moto of Harvard was Christi Glorian to the glory of Christ. In 1692, the moto of Harav was Christo ecclesia for Christ and the church. Harvard University is not or was not a secular school. The church founded Harvard and this is a statement made by Kulbert and I quote Harvard because of a departure from a core values has ended up being a place where souls are reduced to bodies, minds are reduced to brains, consciences are reduced to political pool, people are reduced to degraded cultural anemia. Many professors have become like priests who have lost their faith and kept their job. I'm quoting uh Colbert's work finding God at Harvard. I'm making the point. The foundation of universities was by the church. Number two, the birth of modern science was by the church. Many pioneers of Christianity, Newton, Pascal, uh, Kepler, they were Christian who saw their work as understanding dot creation. The church was what shape science. Nobody should downplay Christianity and you feel as if Christianity is not useful to the society. It's ignorance. The legal systems was rooted in scripture. Concepts like equity before the law, human rights and justice, they all stem from the biblical teachings and form the basis of western legal system adopted even today in Africa. Hospitals and health care. The church, the early church cared for the sick leading to the formation of hospitals and organizations. They organized the health care system. It was the church, the abolishing of slavery, the Christian church, Christian activists like William Wilberforce in the UK and Quarkas in the United States. They were central in ending the transatlantic slave trade, the church, humanitarian movement, the church, orphanages, soup kitchens, disaster relief. Many of this started as Christian ministries to care for the least of these in the society. Peace and nation building. The church after the fall of Rome. The church preserved order in the society. The church protected knowledge. The church helped rebuild European civilization. Let nobody in academia downplay the power of the gospel and the power of the church. You can talk about arts. You can talk about music. You can talk about culture. The church patronized legendary art and music. Think of Michelangelo's uh work. Think of handle's messiah shaping western civilization and creativity. It was the church. The concept of human dignity. The church. The belief that all are made in God's image be ideas of dignity, ideas of equity, ideas of freedom that undergur democracy today talk to me. Who is that man or woman who wants to talk about the Christian church as if it is useless, a noise making religion? You don't know your history. So I charge you as student, you are to be the readers, the thinkers. You are to be those who shape conversation on on social media. Don't be bullied as if you belong to a religion without a social impact. I'm talking about when nations are born. The sacred assignment of campus ministries. I can come to Africa. Major historical impact of the Christian church in Africa. When you talk about education, the church in the 1940s, when you talk about founding of universities, the church, are you aware that college was the first university level institution in subsaharan African? And guess what? For college was established in 1827 in Freetown Serion where my wife comes from and it was founded by the church missionary society the CMS the first major university in subsaharan Africa. The church translation and preservation of African languages. The church healthcare and hospitals in Africa. The church, the Christian missions, introduce western medicine, they build hospital, they train African nurses and doctors. The church ending of harmful traditional practices. The church leadership and nation building. The church empowerment of women. The church. It was the church that promoted the dignity of women, access to education and their inclusion in leadership and family reform. The church spearheaded it. Peace building and reconciliation. The church go to Rwanda after the genocide. The church united a nation. Go to Liberia. The church united a nation. Hear me. The church leveraged her teachings of forgiveness, trauma, healing, and national unity to effect a social change. Talk about social services and welfare. The church, churches established orphanages, food programs, and shelter homes long before government in Africa started providing. The church became a moral voice against injustice. who is the person downplaying the power and the social influence of the church but you know I don't blame them this was what the church did in the past but today I caught it this way once upon a time the church didn't wait for governments we built the schools we We didn't complain about the youth, we taught them. We didn't fear corruption. We fought it. But today, we tweet. We watch. We wait. We have gone from architects of society to onlookers of its decay. Let me say it one more time. Once upon a time, as I've just narrated to you, a a litany of the the church didn't wait for governments. We built the schools. We built the hospitals. We didn't complain about the youth. We taught the youth. Today, the church cannot keep her own youth. We were not afraid of corruption. As a Christian body, we fought it. But today, the church is tweeting. The church is watching. The church is waiting for who? Government. We have gone from being the architect of the society. We are now onlookers of the decays in the societies. Our own church cannot keep a youth. I gave you the data throughout the year. We can't even keep our young people. And do you know what's the problem? The problem is we don't understand the the mandate. Our theme for this week is we have been called. Not just called, we have been charged. Not just charged. We have been commissioned. We don't understand. That's the problem. Matthew 5 verse 14- 16 is not talking about just our character. It's also talking about our interventions in the community. The Bible says, "You plural, you are the light of the world. A city that is on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do they light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a lampstand, and it gives light to all who are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your father in heaven. This is not just about character. It's also about social impact. Hear me. It's not just a matter of having piety. It's also about having social impact. So when you look at this text and I'm going to give you some I'm using two verses today to make the case. Look in this text I see the power of this light. The light that come from Christ. You see light conquers darkness. The church threw aside her character. The way we live. What we do in the society is to conquer darkness, light, colorless darkness. We are the ones, we are not to be reactionary. We must be the pace setters. Be it in science, be it in technology, you name it. But these days, our young people are only tweaking and they are twerking. The girls are twerking. The guys are on drugs and they are idling, commenting on what others are doing. That is not the Christian way. We are not just to conquer darkness. We are to color darkness. We must lead the trend. Be it in fashion, be it in technology, be it in in legal system, you name it. Light changes darkness. I said three things. Light conquers darkness. Light colors darkness. Light changes darkness. and light conditions darkness. But what do we see? We can't even manage our schools. The new generation of Adventist student when you become professionals, fight it. This church is not for anybody. It's your church. I repeat, evangelism is not only the preaching of the three angels messages in court. Babylon is fallen. It's fallen. is good. That is not the only way to evangelize. This is the reason why the church have adra. The church set up hospital. The church set up school. Go to our schools. Go to our hospitals. Listen, we must be at the cutting edge. The things being done today. Respectfully, my brothers and sisters in the charismatic churches, they are now waking up. They are later day saints. Adventism knew that as far as 1862 when we were organized. But what do we see? We ought to be the ones who will not just preach. We conquer darkness with our works, with our policy, with our social intervention, with our interaction. We also color darkness in Kenya, in Africa, with what we do. We change the darkness and we condition the darkness. So I'm talking about the power of this lie. I've given you four. Light conquers darkness. Light colors darkness. Light changes darkness. Light conditions darkness. And then you ask what is the purpose if we do all this? Is it is a witness to the lost and it is also a witness to the Lord. Two things. Social outreach, community impact, all these things I'm talking about. And I've given a historical anticident. What will it culminate into? It's a witness to those who are lost. And it is a witness to the Lord. Let your light shine before men. It's a witness. Not just that we don't break the Sabbath. We are also thinkers. SC must be thinkers. We need the sharpest entrepreneur, the sharpest contracts, contractors, the sharpest business people, the smartest politician who still obey God but they are top class. Is it possible? Yes. This type of Adventism which says we are only going to heaven. No, we are not only going to heaven. There is a work here. Heaven is a reward. Let me say it one more time. Behold, I come quickly and my reward is with me to give every man according to as his work. It's not just about keeping some ten commandment. Quite frankly, even we don't understand the keeping of the Sabbath. The Sabbath begins with six days you shall labor. It's not just keeping a Saturday. I have a full presentation on it. We are to lead the productivity in in Kenya. When they talk about how do you call it um gross do gross domestic product GD GD what GDP adventists are to lead it because the Bible says six days you shall labor the Sabbath teaches us every week complete something every week finish something every week do something but what we do tomorrow we are going to gather here again and we'll sing our clown songs then we we we give ourselves high five happy Sabbath and we go business as usual What have we done throughout the week? This is Adventism 101. Not just a gathering of people on Saturday morning. Throughout the week, we are witnesses to the lost and we are witnesses to the Lord. How? The way we engage the community. Isaiah said it best. It says, "Arise and shine for your light has come and the glory of the Lord rises upon you." Look at it. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and deep darkness the people, but the Lord will arise over you, and his glory will be seen upon you. The Gentiles shall come to your light and kings to the brightness of your rising. Kings don't come because you are only holy. Kings come because you have solutions. Gentiles will not come because you are holy. Gentiles come because you have the solutions of the world, of the community, of the society. The brains of Adventists are not being empowered to fix problems in the community. I believe in going to heaven. He said keep doing business till I hold I come. Our subject this night when nations are born the sacred assignment of campus ministry. If everybody in the church doesn't understand you the university graduate you need to birth a new Adventism very holy and rich. Tomorrow I'm going to talk about money and this thing that we talk about everybody is poor and we we want to build a church building 30 years we can't even build everybody is poor that foolishness will stop Ellen White has spoken about it the Bible has thought about it so tomorrow afternoon you better don't miss it you come here there is a text we like using what I'm talking about is evangelism It's evangelism. On Sunday morning, I'll be talking to the professionals and the and the men and women groups on Sunday morning before I check out. We are interested in winning watchmen, gatekeepers, charismatics are interested in winning the owners of the house. Then we come to Wednesday prayer meeting. Lord, the persecution is so high. Please sit down. Why were you when the big man that man who owns the house we won't target them because our evangelistic crusade a lot of planning and thinking is not going in Isaiah 58 verse 12 I'm going to spend some 30 minutes on this let's bow our heads again let's pray father in heaven my heart is pumping so fast we have misrepresented evangelism we don't leverage the power of social change. We pray today a new generation of Adventist Christians, believers will emerge who will understand the complete complete face of outreach. It's not just the preaching of ten commandments. It's much more than that. Give us understanding and let me use the words exactly how you want us to feel. guide my thought and my lips to honor you and be frank and very forthright but loving in Jesus's name. Let somebody say an amen. Amen. Look at the text. Isaiah 58:12. Those from among you shall build the old waste places. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations. and you shall be called the repairer of the bridge, the restorer of streets to dwell in. This text has a lot of application. One of them is talking about how we will be able to restore the Sabbath and the rest of it we use it very often. This evening I want you to look at it differently. So the first question is what period was this text given? Let me read the text again. Those from among you shall build the old waste places. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations and you shall be called the repairer of the bridge, the restorer of streets to dwell in. The question is what is the time period and the setting? This message was given by the Lord through the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 58 usually we call it the third and the final section of the book of Isaiah. The book of Isaiah is divided into three part. This is the third part from chapter 56 to chapter 66. We often refer to it as the the trito Isaiah. It is believed to be written after the their exit from exile in Babylon. So it's somewhere around 5 BC. It was the fifth century when this message was given. What was happening? Israel just left captivity. Their nation was in ru. The country was in rubble. And many people were discouraged. What was going on at that time? The temple has been destroyed. And though rebuilding was underway, Jerusalem still remained politically weak and economically unstable. The people were fasting and praying. They were expecting divine blessings. Yet they were not seeing the result. So they were engaged in a lot of religious rituals yet righteousness was absent in the land. They were bullying their people, stealing, taking advantage of people and cheating. And then they had the guts to ask God, why are we praying and you are not listening? Why are we fasting and you are not listening? And God got angry. God fired back and told them, is this the kind of fast I have chosen? You fast, but you exploit your workers. You bow your heads like a reed but won't break the chains of injustice. So God was frustrated. God blasted them. Why did I choose this chapter to make a major case this evening? We are at that place. This chapter gives a blueprint for national reformation. Evangelism is not just getting some people to go to heaven only. Evangelism is first to influence life. here when they see the qualitative influence they begin to ask about this God. We can't be Adventist and be quiet about what is happening to Kenya. No, it's unbiblical. Let me say that bold. It is unbiblical. We the Bible say pray for the peace of Jerusalem for in her peace you find your peace. Hear me. We must be interested in everything in Kenya. I'm going to give a biblical perspective now. God gave the children of Israel what to do to help the nation. And though they were worshiping, there was injustice. God also chose to give them a certain mental view of what they need to do in the nation, the role they must play. This is what was happening in the book of Isaiah. If I were to have time, I would have broken us into groups and given you few chapters of chapter 58 and ask you glean the lessons from it. Now I'm talking about where nations are born. The next 50 years of Kenya is already being developed in the University of Kenyata, in University of Nairobi, you name it. Whatever university it is, if you're watching from Africa, uh, West Africa, Southern Africa, the next generation of the nation we will be giving birth to is information now. So the universities is where nations are born. Now hear me loud. We were not saved to be spectators or to spectate in our nations. We were not called to be or we were not called just to comment on social media. We were not baptized to blend in. I've said three things. Number one, we were not saved to spectate. We were not called to comment. We were not baptized to blend in. God did not raise his church to sit in sanctuaries while cities sink. That was not God's plan. I've given you a New Testament version. Let your light shine. And then Isaiah says, "Those from among you shall build the old waste places. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations and you shall be called the repairer of the bridge, the restorer of streets to dwell in. There are seven truth in this one paragraph and that is going to be my focus today. Watch and follow me carefully. Look at the first phrase. those from among you in there is a solution for our new mindset for the new evangelism university students professionals you need to champion the issue is God's blueprint for national healing start with his people the Bible says those from among you God was speaking to church members not outsiders in other words God is not looking for outsiders to fix the mess in Kenya. He is calling for you. He is calling for us. The healing of Kenya, the healing of Ghana, the healing of Nigeria, the healing of Africa, the healing of Uganda will not come from having global conferences. It will come from a revived and a reforming church. So the Bible says those from among you if I want to fix the mess in Kenya it will come from my people. Take note this is the reason why I started by saying we were not saved to spectate. We were not called to comment. We were not baptized to blend in. God did not raise his church to sit in sanctuaries while cities sink. So what is the solution to Kenya's socioeconomic difficulty that the church can leverage for good? The Bible says those from among you. In other words, God's blueprint for the healing of Kenya, for the healing of Africa, for the healing of the world, it to start with his people. Follow me. Point number two. Look at the text again. Isaiah 58:12. Those from among you shall build the old waste places. Who will build the old waste places? The test is who build it? Those from among you. In other words, wasted places in your country, on our continent, in my country, among our people, wasted places are waiting for willing people. The broken systems today we complain about everybody's complaining. Everybody's complaining. The broken system, the abandoned dreams, the wasted potential of your nation, of your community, of your country. You are the light. The Bible says those who build the old places, they are not Gentiles. They are those from among you. Broken systems don't scare God. Abandoned dreams don't scare God. Wasted potential of Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria, Africa, you name it. They don't scare God. He's just waiting for a people with spiritual greets also with practical tools. Our problem as a church is we we focus too much on the spiritual. Adventism is holistic. That is why they call even Adventist education holistic education. Our evangelism must not only solve the spiritual condition. They don't know the truth. Tell them now. Tell them now. Yes. After telling them now, we also need to do now act. Solve the broken systems. The wasted places in Kenya are waiting for a willing people. Adventists in Kenya when you cough, Kenya must catch a cold. The young student on campus don't follow this lame dark approach to Adventism. Your voice must be heard in your department. Be a light in your community. Be when the road is spoiled. You are on the street for Adventist. Fix it. Begin to start. Rally the community. That is what we call evangelism 101. It's not a matter of coming to church working with with your 4x4 on a broken road and you come here piety. Father in heaven, we thank you for the Sabbath. Get out. Go to the community and fix the problem. Wasted places. are waiting for a willing people. I've said two things. Number one, God's blueprint for national healing start not with Muslims but start with his people, not with agnostics, not with Buddhists, not with Shintus. God's blueprint for national healing start with his people. Number two, we are called to build the old west places. It also include the wasted injustice system, the corrupt public sector, the reckless military or police service, wasted places are waiting for a willing people. And that takes me to point number three. And then we said in point number three, those from among you shall build the old west places. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations. Take note. In this three phrases, God is saying the church must become a generation building machine. How do I know? Watch it again. Those from among you, after you build the old west places, then you shall raise foundations of many generations. In other words, the church must become generation building machine. The next generation of engineers must emerge from the church. The next generation of social activists must emerge from the church. The next generation of innovators must emerge from the church. The next generation of fashion designers must emerge from the church. We complain morality has gone down. Take leadership. Stop talking. begin to design the top class fabric to fit the modern the Jenzi group in Nairobi, in Kenya, in East Africa, in West Africa. The church must become a generation building machine. Our sermons must also build church members. Not to tell them forget everything on this earth just think about heaven. No, that is unbiblical. We will work. He will meet us working and he will take us to his kingdom. Somebody should say an amen out there. It is biblical. So the engineers, lecturers, professors, thought leaders, all of them have locked their mind. Why? We are going to heaven. Yes, we are going to heaven. No doubt about it. It's the most climatic event in earth history. But like the world dances, until then, let's build the next generation of change makers for Kenya. So the sermons, the teachings, the conceptualization, our girls must not only sing father Abraham like the things I talked about today. A why should let the young people know the role of the church in history. Not just what the church did in the old and the new testament. What the church did in the 15th century, the 4th century, the third century, how the church shape modern civilization. If you take the church out, the world today will have been a primitive place. Today the Christian church has has has been outplayed by other religions. So you go to a place if you're a pastor sometimes we sit down there sit down there why the church has lost grips in building the next generation of change agents. I'm saying God's blueprint for national for national healing start with his people those from among you. Number two wasted places are waiting for a willing people. Number three, the church must become a generation building machine. And do you know the sad part? The church herself cannot keep her own young people from even believing what the church is teaching. She can't even play her indoor games well to the point that preparing her indoor children to shape the world. Our young people are exiting the church. Even our own beliefs, they can't even keep it. How dare us even their dream to prepare them to face the world. So there is a problem and the new generation of Adventist students you are not going to do that. One of our hymns says rise up courageous youth the church for you that way. Her strength is unequal to her task. Rise up and make her great. My grandmother, my mother, they have led to where they have reached. This new generation of Adventist University student think outside the box. evangelism and outreach. God has called you for this season, for this time. So you must become a change agent. Isaiah said, "Those from among you shall build the old waste places. You shall raise up the foundations not just of one generation, of many generations, and you shall be called the repairer of the bridge." Take note of that. In there I see a principle. We are called to be repairers, not reporters. Anyone can point at what is broken. But God is raising people, raising some young people who will stand in the gap. Not just talk about the gap. They will stand in between the gap and fix the mess and fix the problem. So I say we are called to repair the moral degragence in our society, immorality, corruption, broken system. We are not just to be reporting and laughing at it and making cracking jokes out of it. When anything you see in Kenya that is wrong, you tell the Lord, "Give me the burdens and the tools in my lifetime. Let me fix it." Then when you finish fixing it, people are, "Wow, who is this young man? Who is this young lady? And when you are being interviewed, you let the whole world know you are a seventh day Adventist. Quit evangelism is better than that. I've said four things. God's blueprint for national building healing starts with his people. Wasted places are waiting for a willing people. The church must become a generation building machines. So not everybody can be doing children's program. I have passion for children's program. We need to educate those who teach the children in the Sabbath school and the rest of it. The new a new mindset must emerge from the Sabbath school class. My time it was give me we know that father Abraham many we know that 2025 we can't do that. Please we've done rot and not we tie the knot. They said when the persecution is coming, we will be in the bushes. Fine. Now with an AI, a new generation of Sabbath school teachers must emerge. Why? The church must become a generation building machine. So there are some agnostic boys in China. There are some Buddhists in India. There are some atheists right now in Georgia. And they are developing the the what will control us for the next 30 years. Our girls and boys must emerge with Christ's mindset. Who will be in the marketplace, compete with them, beat them hands down and convert them. Somebody should say an amen to that one. This is where we got to be. Not the same. We put four stick, one stick, one stick, one stick, then we put a cloth around it like a shrine. The evangelistic pulpit is like a shrine. Green cloth. Green cloth toss it to a toxic. Then then we come with your this kind of song. Hey yeah, we in 2025 that will have its place. Then our microphones cannot even sustain it. Then we are using some white cloth for projection and we can't even see. It is like day and night. The whole thing is if you watch it for 10 days you you you have glaucoma. We are called to be repairers not reporters. So whatever is happening wrong in Kenya is good. We will complain. I was there last year doing evangelistic meeting. Young people were on the street. All right. It's a liberty. They need to be on the street. It's their right. If they do it according to law. Yesterday or two days ago, young people were on the street. after the street. We need to fix a problem. Let's think outside the box. One way is to protect. What are the other ways? We need Adventist young people who are not just reporting sharing. Hey, the demonstration is happening. Something's happening in Kenya ra. We are called to be repairers, not reporters. Problem solvers, not running commentary on the problem. Isaiah said, "Those from among you shall build the old west places. You shall raise up the foundations of many generation, and you shall be called the repairer of the bridge." And it says, "The restorer of streets to dwell in." My focus is restorer of streets to dwell in. In there, I see a principle. Transformation begins when the church moves from the sanctuary to the streets. Watch the text carefully. Those from among you shall build the old places. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations. And you shall be called the repairer of the bridge, the restorer of streets to dwell in. In excent, if our theology doesn't touch the streets, our gospel is incomplete. Urban renewal, economic ethics, youth empowerment, health system, social advocacy. These are no side project. They are sacred mission is part of evangelism. Point number six, watch the text carefully. When the Bible says repairer of the bridge, I see another point there. Silence in the face of decay is spiritual negligence. We are always quiet while foundations crumble. We are not neutral. We are negligent. When the nation is being run to abyss, we need to stand and say this is wrong. This is wrong. Listen, there is a time Jesus will speak. There is a time Jesus will be silent. It takes wisdom to know the difference. A bridge implies a gap, a wound, a national breakdown, moral or spiritual or social. So if the Bible say you are the repairer, one must first notice the damage. So what is the damage in Kenya? What is the problem with Kenya? from the educational sector to the health sector to the economic sector to the cultural or the political landscape. Every Adventist professional, Adventist student on campus, you must be able to understand what is happening in Kenya. Why? It is part of a way to influence conversation and social change. Evangelism is not just what we do. There is more to it. It is a moral obligation. It is a moral obligation. So when the Bible talks about we are to be the restorer of streets to dwell in the church cannot keep being in the church house and say I am fulfilling the mandate. No get on the streets. The streets may involve the streets of academia. The street of running an NGO, the street of signs, the street of commerce, the street of now we have the African continental free trade area. What is its implication? How can Adventist leverage it? What can we see in between? Hear me. I've made some point this evening. God's blueprint for national healing start with his people. Number two, wasted places are waiting for a willing people. Number three, the church must become a generation building machine. Number four, we are called to be repairers, not reporters. And I'm saying transformation begins when the church moves from the sanctuary to the street. And then I'm saying silence in the face of decay is spiritual negligence. And the last point then is those from among you shall build the old west places. You shall raise up the foundations of many generations and you shall be called the repairer of the bridge. The restorer of streets to dwell in. And I say revival without rebuilding is incomplete. Let's rebuild our communities. Let's rebuild our institutions. Let's rebuild. Ladies and gentlemen, the university students, you are the best. And if you are a professional listening to me this evening or under God's voice this evening, if you are not averetting your minds to these areas, you have failed us. Now hear me. In 2025 and beyond, you can't do evangelism in Africa without offering employment solutions to the audience. You know, we are stuck to the charcoal and clay uh how do you call it health reform medical missionary is good aside medical mission. If Ellen White was alive today and she was writing modules that will serve as open words for the gospel, it will be she will talk about employment and I will quote some statement from the book ministry of healing. See, I've checked the unemployment rate in African countries. I've checked the undermployment. People who are employed, they are not paid well. They are not working the full hours. It's crazy. I've checked Kenya's data. I've checked the data. Now when they are talking about how will we fix the problem of unemployment in Kenya and guess what people say let's pray about it let me show you what Ellen White said what we must do it will blow your mind anybody who tells you evangelism is just the preaching of of the mark of the beast and the rest of it is one part another part is to influence society through knowledge knowledge product watch I'm taking this quote from the ministry of healing. Go and check from page 183 down. I will quote a couple of them and I'll extract the lessons and we call it a day. There are largehearted men and women who are anxiously considering the conditions of the poor and what means can be found for their relief. How the unemployed and the homeless can be helped to secure the common blessings of God's providence and to live the life he intended man to live is a question to which many are earnestly and devouring to find an answer. In this statement, Ellen White says, "Many are in search of answers to our social economic wos." Take note. She said, "Many people, how do we take care of the poor? How do we deal with unemployment? Many people are talking about it. And guess what? Whilst the world is looking for answers for this, our only respond is Jesus is coming again. Until he comes, the person is hungry now. Until he comes in the cloud, what must be done?" Ellen White offered an answer. and university student. This is why I encourage you read the spirit of prophecy. Distill lessons out of it and use it to shape the policies within your sectors. Ellen White says but there are not many take note the first one she says where is it there are largeed men and women large numbers who are asking how do we deal with unemployment? Now she's saying there are not many even among educators, professors, statemen, politicians who comprehend the causes that underly the present state of society. Those who hold the rims of government, politicians are unable to solve the problem of poverty, perism, and increasing crime. They are struggling in vain to place business operation on a more secure basis. Watch listen to the news. Watch the news. This is the issue. Government is having cabinet meeting. They are doing calling consultant. How do we deal with the problem? The problems are one poverty, two perism, three crime and four how do we stable or incite the the various economic variables to make businesses thrive. Ellen White says this is the headache and few people have the answers question. Adventists have been given this answer. But all we do is our young men are not taught to become policy think tanks that offer solutions to the problem of the world. They know us to be people who sing. With the greatest of respect to my musicians, you sang very well. [Music] After doing the who, we need another group that will be thinkers. They will think how do we solve poverty? How do we solve? How do we deal with this? So everybody listen I was telling somebody if you are a bar singer you want to marry my daughter I will suck you is on a lighter note. So Ellen White has given solution that will make us relevant to the difficulty. So President R and the rest they are struggling. How do we deal with the problem? There is mass protest. Adventists will come up with a working document with a heaven stamp guarantee. It will succeed. But what are we doing? Coming again. Coming. What? We are hungry. What is the solution? Jesus is coming again. We are sick. What is the solution? Jesus will end suffering. We are this. What is the new Jerusalem? No. A new generation of Adventists will say yes Jesus will come ultimately in the intervening period. Here is a policy direction that fix the issue. And Ellen White has talked about it. So she's saying very few have the answers to our social, cultural, political and economic woes. So she started there is a problem. Number two, politicians don't even have it. Lecturers in the universities they don't even know the answers according to the spirit of prophecy. So where is the answer? Look at it. Point number three. If men will give more heed to the teaching of God's word, they will find a solution of these problems that perplex them. Take note, much might be learned from the Old Testament in regard to the labor question, labor work and the relief of the poor. Ellen White says, "Look, once politicians and state statemen are struggling, what is the solution?" She says, "Oh, if only they will read the Old Testament, God has already enshrined answers." So, some of you are writing proposals on how to be able to help a certain sector. Just take the spirit of prophecy in the Bible and glean the principles. So, she says, "We have an advantage. God's word is the well of wisdom for our national healing." In other words, God's word is holds the answers to our social and economic struggle. In other words, scripture is not just spiritual. It speaks to our social economic crisis. And if you want, listen, the Bible is our blueprint for economic social breakthrough. So, it's not just about going to heaven. Ellen White says there are practical solutions. What is that solution? Ministry of healing page 183 to 186. And I glean in God's plan for Israel. Every family had a home on the land with sufficient ground for tealing. Thus were provided both the means and the incentives for a useful industrious and a selfsupporting life. Then she went on and no devising of men. So she says look God's solution is agriculture. That's what she's saying. Then Ellen White says and no devising of men has ever improved upon that plan. Take note. No devising of men. So the UN can meet all the people can meet. Did you read this in your ministry of healing? So Eli says it is a time-tested strategy. No amount of UNESCO UN World Bank meeting can change it. Here is a million dollar or billion dollar idea in reversing the poverty in Africa to the world's departure from it is owing to a large degree the poverty and the wretchedness that exists today. She says our departure from God's ideal of every family, every household having a an agriculture inside. she says is a reason the world is struggling today. And then she said the tilling of the soil, the employment that God appointed to Adam in Eden opens a field in which there is opportunity for multitudes to gain a a subsistence. In other words, the road to prosperity runs through our farms and factories. Now, there is a whole book she wrote, how you should farm so that you will not lose. She dealt with it. I'm talking about you. So if you are meeting as a student group SDA fellowship, it's not just these people only talk about heaven. No, they also talk about how to solve the problems of Kenya. Then you are gaining relevance. People will listen to us. Minister of healing page 194, attention should be given to the establishment of various industries. Take note. Ellen White says if the nation want to solve the problem attention should be given to the establishment of industries and then she said and no devising of man has ever improved upon this. In other words, job creation is through industry. And as the church must ask, how many industries have we created? I can go on and on. Somewhere else you said in Israel industrial training was regarded as a duty. Every father was required to teach his sons some useful trade. The greatest men in Israel were trained in industrial pursuit. A knowledge of the duties pertaining to housewife was considered essential for every woman and skills in these duties are regarded as honor to women of the highest station. Various industries were taught in the schools of the prophet and many of the students sustained themselves by manual labor. Our theological school must take it. Many of the students from the school of the prophet they fed themselves by doing manual labor. So what is Ellen White saying? She says the plan of life that God gave to Israel was intended as an object lesson for all mankind. She's saying the whole world do you want to elevate poverty? Look at the Israeli economy. Do you want to deal with with with with hunger, with food, with difficulty, with populism, with crime? Look at what I did with Israel. Within the vast boundaries of nature, there is still room for the suffering and needed to find a home. Within her bosom, there are resources sufficient to provide them with food. Hidden in the depth of the earth are blessings for all who have courage and will and perseverance to gather her treasures. In other words, before you can get money, watch the soil. The blessings are not on the soil. They are in the soil. Attention should be given to the establishment of various industries so that poor families can find employment. Carpenters, blacksmith and indeed everyone who understands some line of useful labor should feel a responsibility to teach and to help the ignorant and the unemployed. How can you organize a crusade in 2025? And you are talking only about one area of life. Ellen White says you can't do crusade evangelism 2025. So where we used to do health messages, we will split it between health messages and entrepreneurship, job creation and you the university student insist on it. When you are organizing campus campaign, it's not just the mark of the beast. It's how to deal with poverty, how to deal with business, how to deal with jobs. Anybody who challenges you, tell them Ellen Y has provided a solution. And she says all the meetings in the world they will not find the answer. This is the answer. Let the boys and the girls be taught thoroughly taught some useful trade or occupation. So you find our young student they graduated from school and they are just there. I can't find a job. Ellen White says you can't do that. In ence, job creation through industry, technical and vocational education is a major source of relief. This is what the spirit of prophecy is saying. Bible religion never make men's idols. Ellen White says it does not teach us to escape from a life of toil and responsibility. Idleness is sin. Every man and woman who is truly converted will be a worker. He will not shun responsibility. Idleness opened the door to temptation. So she say teach work as part of worship. Did Paul not say for even when we were with you we commanded you this if anyone will not work neither shall he eat. Jesus says I must work the work of him who sent me while it is day. The night is coming when no one can work. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear. The issue is we are to build when nations are born. The secret assignment of campus ministries. Remember we are the light of the world. Light conquers darkness. Light colors darkness. Light aside everything changes darkness. Light conditions darkness. And why do we do it? What is the purpose? To serve as a witness to the lost and to serve as a witness to the Lord. The question this evening is this. How many persons feel there is much more to Adventist outreach than we see today? Let me see your hand. There is much more. Hands down. You didn't get me. How many people want to be ambassadors of this by all? It's an ancient philosophy, ancient principle. Now in my local church, we will be useful to the community. myself. I must offer solutions to the world whilst I wait to go to heaven. I need to influence the world here. How many persons feel it is a Christian responsibility? Let me see your hand. Hands down. Lastly, how many persons want to listen to this and go back and do more of the same? Hands up. How many persons want to say dear God? I want to be part of the solution. I don't want to be part of the problem. I don't want to be part of those who only complain. I want to be part of the solution. Let me see your hand. Come kneel here. I want to pray with you. Come up. Don't talk. Just walk and come. Who is the organist? Can you play the song Work for the Night is coming? Just walk right down and come here and kneel down right here. [Music] Go on your knees. Please come. Those of you joining online, just type I will do by God's grace. I will do by God's grace. Just move and come. You can come right here. [Music] Kenya must know us. Not just because we go to church on Saturday, we solve the problems in Kenya, the problem of injustice, the problem of health, the problem of inequality. And I pray that God will make some Adventists own industries. Old commercial farms employ people. [Music] Let us pray. Father in heaven as the music is being played what's depressing we have not done well for lack of knowledge when people perish. The church in the past has changed society. The church today must do better. Those of us in this auditorium, those of us watching online, we refuse to be spectators in the social, cultural, economic and political dynamics of our era and our day. We will be holy and will be rich. We will not just complain will be the solutions. the next generation of Kenyans the quality of the life in Kenya we will participate in building Lord please if I have heard in the way I'm passionate about it forgive me but one thing is sure through the Bible and the spirit of prophecy you have given us a blueprint to make our church and our belief system a force to reckon with. We have settled for very little. We have misrepresented this whole salvation concept. Heaven is the goal. But until then, we will influence life here. Bless the students here. Bless the professionals here. Anybody both online and in person who desires that by the grace of God, I will not just spectate. I will be a citizen. I will not just tweet. I will cause a revolution. I will not just complain. I will do something about the difficulty. Bless those decisions out of this audience. raise a generation of Adventists. Whether they are professors in the universities, they will offer solutions to Kenya and Africa. Whether they are captains of industry, they will be forced to reckon with. Whether they are entrepreneurs, they will change the status quo, whether they are civil servant, they will serve with integrity and dignity. We pray for our church. We pray for her leadership. We pray for we pray for all sectors of this church. This is the remnant of Bible prophecy. May we pick up the jewels of truth. May we redefine outreach and may we shape continent when you come. May it be a reward time. Find us worthy not because we idled but because we work. We build the bridges. We repair the streets and the walls. we transform lives using biblical principles and using the writings of Ellen White. Help us. May data give us indicators on what to do. May we become like the sons of Issacha who understood the time and they knew what Israel ought to do. We pray for the professionals. Bless them out of our professionals. raise a generation of impeccable force to reckon with intellectuals, industry folks. They are at the cutting edge of their trade. They are brilliant. They are principle. They are godly. They are visionary and they are forwardlooking. Bless our students in school. May they stand out when others stand. As we go to our places of rest and abold, preparing for tomorrow's service on Sabbath, we pray go before us. Bless our online audience. Is being seven days of teaching and study. May these hours spent not go waste. May we leverage this unique ministry of campus ministry. May a movement emerge. Please, where I have heard in the course of the week, forgive me and use me a vessel to your glory. In Jesus's name, we have prayed. Let's somebody say an amen. Amen. God bless you. You can have a seat. [Music] 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[1.5s] Good evening.
[3.9s] That's a weak one.
[7.3s] Sorry. Good evening.
[11.0s] We welcome you to day number what?
[14.7s] Seven of our
[17.9s] week-long project with campus
[20.6s] ministries.
[22.6s] Let's bow our heads and let's whisper a
[24.5s] prayer again. Father in heaven, speak to
[26.9s] all of us and give us a listening ear
[29.8s] and heart. For we have asked in Jesus's
[32.3s] name. Amen.
[35.3s] as I always do.
[38.2s] It was Jesus himself who said,
[42.2s] "If you continue in my words, then you
[46.3s] are my disciples indeed and you shall
[49.7s] know the truth and the truth shall set
[53.3s] you free. If the Son set you free, you
[58.4s] will be free indeed." Can someone say an
[60.6s] amen out there? Amen. I make to you four
[64.3s] promises. Promise number one is the
[66.5s] Bible shall be the bedrock of our study.
[69.8s] And the reason is the Bible means what
[73.1s] it says and says just what it means.
[77.9s] Promise number two, you are going to be
[79.3s] enlightened irrespective of who you are.
[82.5s] Promise number three, you are going to
[84.2s] be challenged to make the most important
[86.6s] decision of your life. And promise
[88.9s] number four, our lives, your life and
[91.9s] mine will never be the same. Our subject
[95.7s] or theme for the entire week is called
[100.2s] charged. Commissioned.
[103.4s] Called. Charged. Commissioned. Called
[107.4s] with an assignment. Charged with a
[111.0s] message and an impact. permission to
[114.8s] change and influence the world. So
[118.6s] throughout the week we have been
[120.6s] attempting day number one we dealt with
[123.2s] the forgotten battlefield why campus
[126.5s] ministries hold the future of the
[129.4s] church. Day number two we dealt with
[131.4s] blueprint for a movement heaven's vision
[134.8s] for campus missions. Day number three we
[137.3s] dealt with loss in plain sigh. Why
[140.6s] disciplehip
[142.2s] is the only defense. Day number four we
[145.8s] dealt with from funds to fellowship the
[149.0s] cost of true disciplehip. And day number
[152.4s] five and six we looked at the part one
[155.4s] and two of invading the intellectual
[159.5s] jungle turning secular campuses into
[163.5s] spiritual land paths.
[167.0s] And for this evening,
[169.3s] we title it, where nations are born, the
[172.6s] sacred assignment of campus ministries.
[176.6s] Take note.
[178.6s] I'm going to make some difficult
[180.3s] statements this evening. I pray God will
[182.9s] give you grace to take them. Point
[185.6s] number one,
[189.2s] the general conference m uh theme itself
[193.0s] is mission beyond boundaries.
[197.4s] Now, evangelism
[200.0s] is not just preaching the gospel or
[203.7s] having a Bible study. And I'm going to
[206.7s] deplore it. There is much more to
[210.2s] evangelism.
[212.2s] Evangelism is not only the declaration
[216.6s] of the of the three angels messages we
[221.0s] call them. One of the reason the world
[224.4s] is not listening to us is what I am
[227.6s] going to share this evening. We if you
[230.3s] are on campus we are not talking about
[233.2s] campus ministries only so that you will
[236.9s] be able to give a bible study on the
[238.8s] sanctuary you will be able to give a
[240.9s] bible study on the investigative
[242.6s] judgment there are various layers of
[245.4s] evangelism and this is what I'm sharing
[248.6s] today is part of what adventism believes
[252.8s] but in many churches in many fields in
[255.3s] many conferences unions and division and
[258.2s] many student on campus do not understand
[261.8s] holistic outreach. Let me make another
[264.6s] point. Ministry of healing Ellen White
[267.4s] says Christ method alone will bring true
[271.0s] success and then we dealt with it
[273.2s] yesterday. So for this night
[277.4s] nations are born on campus.
[281.0s] If you watch across the continent
[283.1s] Africa, you will see field dirtiness
[288.9s] problems here and there. There are good
[291.8s] things about our continent. Look, those
[294.2s] are Africans trying to cross the
[297.1s] Mediterranean Sea in search of greener
[300.6s] pastures. These are younger brothers,
[304.1s] abledbody men who were caught treated
[308.0s] with inhumane treatment. In fact, the
[311.4s] Guardian in 2017 made a compelling case
[316.2s] for say you go around even in Africa,
[320.4s] you experience a lot of xenophobic
[323.6s] attacks. I was thinking that when we got
[328.2s] to 2018, 2019,
[331.7s] we were told that the 400 years of the
[335.7s] slave trade, so the first time slaves
[339.6s] left the shores of West Africa, uh,
[342.5s] precisely Ghana and went into Europe and
[346.3s] North America, 2018, 2019 marks exactly
[351.5s] 400 years. And we taught in the Bible 40
[356.0s] years, 40 days, 400 years mark a season
[360.1s] of liberation.
[362.2s] So Africa will experience a renaissance,
[365.4s] a new dimension. Situations are getting
[368.6s] worse.
[370.7s] Hear me.
[373.0s] If we do not contextualize
[376.0s] this everlasting gospel to the social,
[379.6s] political and economic needs of
[382.0s] Africans, we will be here with our
[384.2s] children and our wives and our disloyal
[386.8s] husbands.
[389.3s] Let me say it one more time. Any form of
[392.8s] evangelism
[394.5s] that is devoid of the social, cultural
[398.7s] and the political needs of the people is
[401.9s] not evangelism holistically in itself.
[405.5s] We will be tickling ourselves.
[408.7s] In the 1900
[411.3s] Christianity in Africa was very minimal.
[415.0s] By 202,000
[418.1s] Africans population of Christians surge
[422.1s] by 2020
[424.2s] Africa became the headquarters of
[426.5s] Christianity. The mecca of Christianity
[429.3s] is Africa. Not North America, not
[431.8s] Europe, not South America. The largest
[434.6s] adherent of Christianity across the
[437.5s] world is in Africa. And the question is
[441.4s] why is it that we have a lot of people
[444.2s] talking about Christianity yet our
[447.6s] qualitative lives have not changed.
[451.8s] Quite frankly
[454.4s] sometimes
[456.5s] we are not taken serious as a people. We
[459.4s] have a message 7th day Adventist is the
[463.6s] remnant of Bible prophecy. No doubt.
[467.0s] Revelation chapter 3 after the loudian
[469.8s] church no other church emerge. Now the
[474.1s] world is not listening to us enough. And
[476.8s] the reason quite frankly is that our
[478.7s] evangelistic approach they are not the
[481.0s] best. Yesterday I talked about couple of
[482.7s] them but this evening this presentation
[485.2s] is not just for the student. It is for
[487.4s] the professionals those who call
[489.3s] themselves ar women ministry youth
[493.0s] ministry and all this ministry without
[496.4s] incorporating this component to our
[499.8s] evangelistic ethos we will go nowhere.
[504.1s] Hear me
[505.9s] on this continent the riches of Africa
[509.5s] is not in the soil. Someone says it is
[512.6s] on the soil. Today the people we are to
[516.3s] give the everlasting message to they
[519.0s] have lost their sense of purpose. They
[521.7s] have lost their sense of identity. Many
[524.6s] Africans especially young Africans have
[527.3s] lost their sense of definition of
[529.0s] leadership. Africans, many young people
[532.0s] do not know the value to life. We can't
[534.8s] tell the sense of significance. Many
[537.4s] African young people have lost their
[540.2s] sense of respect. You watch the African
[543.2s] continent quite carefully. They don't
[545.0s] know their heritage. Many young people
[547.0s] and professionals do not know their
[549.0s] selfimage.
[550.8s] There is no self-confidence. There is no
[553.2s] self-esteem. There is no self direction
[556.3s] or sense of direction. There is no
[558.7s] self-conviction.
[560.6s] So you watch this is the continent and
[563.8s] in this continent we have been called
[566.5s] about 19% of the world's population now
[571.0s] about 1.4 1.6 6 million by some data
[574.6s] Africa is called or we are called to
[578.3s] minister in this place and the question
[581.5s] is do we know what is happening on the
[583.6s] continent you can't minister to a people
[586.6s] based on ignorance for example if they
[590.3s] ask many 7th day Adventist young people
[594.0s] do you know
[598.0s] sorry do you know about the agenda 2063
[601.5s] Three. No.
[605.0s] In 2013, African leaders gathered around
[607.5s] Adis Sababa and they decided that they
[609.7s] want to shape an agenda that would
[611.8s] champion and challenge and change
[613.6s] Africa. 2013 the AU the African Union
[616.9s] was was 50 years now. So another 50
[620.7s] years was added. They built a certain
[623.0s] framework that this is the Africa we
[625.1s] want in 50 years. In fact, as we speak
[627.8s] now, it is 12 years since that
[630.4s] initiative was done. You cannot talk
[632.8s] about evangelism in Africa without
[635.6s] understanding where the nations are
[637.7s] going. What is the policy direction? How
[640.7s] do we leverage it? Those days of
[643.0s] evangelism they are over. So for example
[645.9s] what are and you the university student
[648.1s] you are the one who will go to the local
[650.2s] churches and ask this program we want to
[652.7s] do how does it fit into the agenda 2063
[656.7s] we are in a continent we are not an
[659.5s] island on our own we are not in our own
[662.0s] cocoons but is the same thing the same
[666.0s] music the same song the same method
[670.7s] no it cannot be young people in fact if
[674.2s] I were to have time I will have
[676.2s] distilled the agenda 2063 and its impact
[679.8s] and how it can shape evangelism. Then
[682.9s] there is what we call on the continent
[685.5s] the
[687.1s] continental youth consultation forum.
[690.5s] Chances are that many African young
[692.7s] people do not know about its goal its
[695.9s] place and how it can be leveraged. To
[698.7s] put it quite frankly we are not in touch
[701.5s] with the well. So when we are doing
[703.9s] evangelism planning
[706.6s] activities, it's not backed by data.
[709.9s] It's not backed by science. And I can be
[712.5s] bold to say it's not backed by the Holy
[714.3s] Spirit.
[716.3s] So it's it's I it's foolishness
[720.6s] sometimes.
[723.4s] And you the university student, you go
[725.9s] to your local churches, it's the same.
[729.0s] No, it cannot be. something must be done
[732.1s] about it. And now there is a new
[735.1s] emergence we see around the continent.
[737.7s] There are some individuals who come and
[739.3s] tell us that Christianity is useless and
[742.6s] they argue it passionately and quite
[745.7s] frankly sometimes we don't know what to
[747.5s] do. Hear me. The foundations of
[751.3s] universities was by the church.
[753.8s] Christianity is not useless to the
[756.1s] community. Hear me loud. The Christian
[759.3s] church founded the first universities in
[762.6s] Europe. Oxford University was a
[765.3s] Christian university.
[767.8s] University of Paris to educate the
[771.1s] clergy and to promote knowledge. So
[774.6s] nobody should intimidate you because you
[777.6s] are a Christian. Listen, Oxford was a
[780.5s] Christian university.
[782.8s] the Harvard which is now claimed as am I
[787.0s] a top class school. It was a Christian
[789.8s] school. Check it out. In fact in if you
[793.6s] read the book the Christ
[796.8s] looking for God or finding God at
[798.3s] Harvard published in 2007.
[802.0s] Kelberg or Kre says
[805.5s] in the year 1643
[808.6s] the motto of Harvard was Veritas.
[811.5s] Veritas means truth.
[814.3s] In the year 1650,
[817.6s] the moto of Harvard was Christi Glorian
[821.9s] to the glory of Christ.
[825.3s] In 1692,
[827.6s] the moto of Harav was Christo ecclesia
[832.1s] for Christ and the church.
[835.7s] Harvard University is not or was not a
[839.5s] secular school. The church founded
[842.0s] Harvard and this is a statement made by
[844.5s] Kulbert and I quote Harvard because of a
[848.3s] departure from a core values has ended
[850.5s] up being a place where souls are reduced
[854.1s] to bodies, minds are reduced to brains,
[858.8s] consciences are reduced to political
[861.4s] pool, people are reduced to degraded
[864.4s] cultural anemia. Many professors have
[867.6s] become like priests who have lost their
[870.1s] faith and kept their job. I'm quoting uh
[873.7s] Colbert's work finding God at Harvard.
[877.3s] I'm making the point. The foundation of
[879.8s] universities was by the church.
[883.4s] Number two, the birth of modern science
[886.5s] was by the church. Many pioneers of
[889.0s] Christianity, Newton, Pascal, uh,
[892.6s] Kepler, they were Christian who saw
[895.4s] their work as understanding dot
[898.5s] creation. The church was what shape
[901.8s] science. Nobody should downplay
[904.4s] Christianity and you feel as if
[906.6s] Christianity is not useful to the
[908.1s] society. It's ignorance.
[911.6s] The legal systems was rooted in
[914.2s] scripture.
[915.8s] Concepts like equity before the law,
[919.0s] human rights and justice, they all stem
[922.6s] from the biblical teachings and form the
[925.4s] basis of western legal system adopted
[929.5s] even today in Africa. Hospitals and
[932.5s] health care. The church, the early
[934.8s] church cared for the sick leading to the
[937.4s] formation of hospitals and
[939.2s] organizations.
[940.7s] They organized the health care system.
[943.0s] It was the church, the abolishing of
[946.2s] slavery, the Christian church, Christian
[949.2s] activists like William Wilberforce
[953.8s] in the UK and Quarkas in the United
[956.6s] States. They were central in ending the
[959.8s] transatlantic slave trade, the church,
[964.3s] humanitarian movement, the church,
[967.0s] orphanages, soup kitchens, disaster
[970.0s] relief. Many of this started as
[972.8s] Christian ministries to care for the
[975.1s] least of these in the society. Peace and
[978.6s] nation building. The church after the
[981.6s] fall of Rome. The church preserved order
[985.9s] in the society. The church protected
[989.1s] knowledge. The church helped rebuild
[992.2s] European civilization.
[994.4s] Let nobody in academia downplay the
[998.2s] power of the gospel and the power of the
[1001.1s] church.
[1003.1s] You can talk about arts. You can talk
[1005.8s] about music. You can talk about culture.
[1009.5s] The church patronized legendary art and
[1013.8s] music. Think of Michelangelo's
[1017.4s] uh work. Think of handle's messiah
[1021.9s] shaping western civilization and
[1024.8s] creativity. It was the church.
[1030.2s] The concept of human dignity. The
[1032.6s] church.
[1034.5s] The belief that all are made in God's
[1037.0s] image be ideas of dignity, ideas of
[1042.9s] equity, ideas of freedom that undergur
[1047.8s] democracy today
[1051.3s] talk to me. Who is that man or woman who
[1055.0s] wants to talk about the Christian church
[1056.9s] as if it is useless, a noise making
[1059.8s] religion? You don't know your history.
[1062.3s] So I charge you as student, you are to
[1065.8s] be the readers, the thinkers. You are to
[1068.2s] be those who shape conversation on on
[1071.5s] social media. Don't be bullied as if you
[1075.0s] belong to a religion without a social
[1077.2s] impact.
[1080.4s] I'm talking about when nations are born.
[1084.5s] The sacred assignment of campus
[1088.4s] ministries.
[1089.9s] I can come to Africa.
[1092.3s] Major historical impact of the Christian
[1094.7s] church in Africa. When you talk about
[1096.8s] education, the church
[1099.8s] in the 1940s, when you talk about
[1102.4s] founding of universities, the church,
[1105.6s] are you aware that college was the first
[1109.4s] university level institution in
[1111.6s] subsaharan African? And guess what? For
[1114.3s] college was established in 1827 in
[1117.0s] Freetown Serion where my wife comes from
[1119.6s] and it was founded by the church
[1121.7s] missionary society the CMS the first
[1125.6s] major university in subsaharan Africa.
[1128.6s] The church
[1132.0s] translation and preservation of African
[1134.3s] languages. The church
[1137.3s] healthcare and hospitals in Africa. The
[1139.9s] church, the Christian missions,
[1142.7s] introduce western medicine, they build
[1145.6s] hospital, they train African nurses and
[1148.3s] doctors. The church
[1151.4s] ending of harmful traditional practices.
[1154.2s] The church
[1156.4s] leadership and nation building. The
[1158.4s] church empowerment of women. The church.
[1162.1s] It was the church that promoted the
[1164.3s] dignity of women, access to education
[1167.9s] and their inclusion in leadership and
[1170.5s] family reform. The church spearheaded
[1173.3s] it.
[1174.8s] Peace building and reconciliation. The
[1177.8s] church go to Rwanda after the genocide.
[1181.0s] The church united a nation. Go to
[1184.0s] Liberia. The church united a nation.
[1187.7s] Hear me. The church leveraged her
[1190.1s] teachings of forgiveness, trauma,
[1193.1s] healing, and national unity to effect a
[1196.3s] social change.
[1198.6s] Talk about social services and welfare.
[1201.2s] The church,
[1203.0s] churches established orphanages, food
[1205.4s] programs, and shelter homes long before
[1209.7s] government in Africa started providing.
[1212.7s] The church became a moral voice against
[1215.7s] injustice.
[1219.6s] who is the person
[1222.2s] downplaying the power and the social
[1225.1s] influence of the church but you know I
[1228.7s] don't blame them this was what the
[1231.1s] church did in the past
[1233.9s] but today
[1235.9s] I caught it this way
[1238.2s] once upon a time the church didn't wait
[1242.0s] for governments
[1244.0s] we built the schools we We didn't
[1247.1s] complain about the youth, we taught
[1249.7s] them. We didn't fear corruption. We
[1253.0s] fought it. But today, we tweet. We
[1257.5s] watch. We wait. We have gone from
[1261.1s] architects of society to onlookers of
[1264.8s] its decay.
[1266.9s] Let me say it one more time. Once upon a
[1269.7s] time, as I've just narrated to you, a a
[1272.9s] litany of the the church didn't wait for
[1276.1s] governments. We built the schools. We
[1279.2s] built the hospitals. We didn't complain
[1281.8s] about the youth. We taught the youth.
[1284.2s] Today, the church cannot keep her own
[1286.3s] youth. We were not afraid of corruption.
[1289.8s] As a Christian body, we fought it. But
[1293.3s] today, the church is tweeting. The
[1296.9s] church is watching. The church is
[1299.4s] waiting for who? Government.
[1303.4s] We have gone from being the architect of
[1306.5s] the society. We are now onlookers of the
[1310.3s] decays in the societies.
[1314.2s] Our own church cannot keep a youth. I
[1316.7s] gave you the data throughout the year.
[1320.0s] We can't even keep our young people. And
[1322.4s] do you know what's the problem? The
[1324.2s] problem is we don't understand the the
[1328.2s] mandate. Our theme for this week is we
[1331.0s] have been called.
[1333.4s] Not just called, we have been charged.
[1337.0s] Not just charged. We have been
[1338.9s] commissioned. We don't understand.
[1341.8s] That's the problem. Matthew 5 verse 14-
[1345.4s] 16 is not talking about just our
[1347.8s] character. It's also talking about our
[1350.2s] interventions in the community. The
[1352.2s] Bible says, "You plural, you are the
[1356.5s] light of the world. A city that is on a
[1359.8s] hill cannot be hidden, nor do they light
[1363.0s] a lamp and put it under a basket, but on
[1366.2s] a lampstand, and it gives light to all
[1369.8s] who are in the house. Let your light so
[1373.8s] shine before men that they may see your
[1378.6s] good works and glorify your father in
[1382.2s] heaven. This is not just about
[1384.2s] character. It's also about social
[1387.1s] impact.
[1388.6s] Hear me. It's not just a matter of
[1390.8s] having piety. It's also about having
[1394.6s] social impact.
[1398.6s] So when you look at this text and I'm
[1400.2s] going to give you some I'm using two
[1402.8s] verses today to make the case. Look in
[1407.4s] this text I see the power of this light.
[1410.3s] The light that come from Christ. You see
[1413.5s] light conquers darkness.
[1418.7s] The church threw aside her character.
[1421.8s] The way we live. What we do in the
[1424.6s] society is to conquer darkness, light,
[1428.2s] colorless darkness. We are the ones, we
[1431.3s] are not to be reactionary. We must be
[1433.8s] the pace setters. Be it in science, be
[1436.7s] it in technology, you name it. But these
[1439.4s] days, our young people are only tweaking
[1442.1s] and they are twerking. The girls are
[1444.4s] twerking. The guys are on drugs and they
[1447.4s] are idling, commenting on what others
[1450.0s] are doing. That is not the Christian
[1451.7s] way. We are not just to
[1455.8s] conquer darkness. We are to color
[1458.9s] darkness. We must lead the trend. Be it
[1462.2s] in fashion, be it in technology, be it
[1465.4s] in in legal system, you name it. Light
[1469.0s] changes darkness. I said three things.
[1472.6s] Light conquers darkness.
[1475.8s] Light colors darkness.
[1478.6s] Light changes darkness. and light
[1482.2s] conditions darkness.
[1485.3s] But what do we see?
[1489.4s] We can't even manage our schools.
[1493.4s] The new generation of Adventist student
[1496.2s] when you become professionals, fight it.
[1500.2s] This church is not for anybody. It's
[1502.4s] your church. I repeat, evangelism is not
[1505.3s] only the preaching of the three angels
[1507.2s] messages in court. Babylon is fallen.
[1509.4s] It's fallen. is good. That is not the
[1511.4s] only way to evangelize. This is the
[1513.0s] reason why the church have adra. The
[1514.9s] church set up hospital. The church set
[1516.8s] up school. Go to our schools. Go to our
[1519.0s] hospitals. Listen, we must be at the
[1522.0s] cutting edge.
[1524.8s] The things being done today.
[1526.1s] Respectfully, my brothers and sisters in
[1527.9s] the charismatic churches, they are now
[1529.4s] waking up. They are later day saints.
[1531.5s] Adventism knew that as far as 1862 when
[1535.0s] we were organized.
[1538.2s] But what do we see?
[1540.4s] We ought to be the ones who will not
[1543.7s] just preach. We conquer darkness with
[1546.6s] our works, with our policy, with our
[1549.3s] social intervention, with our
[1550.9s] interaction. We also color darkness in
[1554.1s] Kenya, in Africa, with what we do. We
[1557.5s] change the darkness and we condition the
[1560.6s] darkness.
[1562.1s] So I'm talking about the power of this
[1563.9s] lie. I've given you four. Light conquers
[1566.8s] darkness.
[1568.1s] Light colors darkness. Light changes
[1571.0s] darkness.
[1572.6s] Light conditions darkness. And then you
[1575.6s] ask what is the purpose if we do all
[1577.8s] this? Is it is a witness to the lost and
[1582.6s] it is also a witness to the Lord. Two
[1586.3s] things.
[1588.0s] Social outreach,
[1591.0s] community impact, all these things I'm
[1594.0s] talking about. And I've given a
[1595.3s] historical anticident. What will it
[1597.6s] culminate into? It's a witness to those
[1600.9s] who are lost. And it is a witness to the
[1604.4s] Lord.
[1606.5s] Let your light shine before men. It's a
[1610.3s] witness. Not just that we don't break
[1612.8s] the Sabbath. We are also thinkers. SC
[1615.8s] must be thinkers. We need the sharpest
[1618.0s] entrepreneur, the sharpest contracts,
[1621.0s] contractors, the sharpest business
[1623.0s] people, the smartest politician who
[1625.5s] still obey God but they are top class.
[1628.6s] Is it possible? Yes.
[1634.4s] This type of Adventism which says we are
[1636.6s] only going to heaven. No, we are not
[1639.7s] only going to heaven. There is a work
[1640.9s] here. Heaven is a reward.
[1644.1s] Let me say it one more time.
[1646.2s] Behold, I come quickly and my reward is
[1649.4s] with me to give every man according to
[1651.7s] as his work. It's not just about keeping
[1654.1s] some ten commandment. Quite frankly,
[1655.8s] even we don't understand the keeping of
[1657.1s] the Sabbath. The Sabbath begins with six
[1659.1s] days you shall labor. It's not just
[1661.6s] keeping a Saturday. I have a full
[1663.5s] presentation on it.
[1666.6s] We are to lead the productivity in in
[1670.0s] Kenya. When they talk about how do you
[1672.3s] call it um gross do gross domestic
[1675.4s] product GD GD what GDP adventists are to
[1679.4s] lead it because the Bible says six days
[1681.8s] you shall labor the Sabbath teaches us
[1684.1s] every week complete something every week
[1686.7s] finish something every week do something
[1689.4s] but what we do tomorrow we are going to
[1691.0s] gather here again and we'll sing our
[1693.0s] clown songs then we we we give ourselves
[1696.1s] high five happy Sabbath and we go
[1698.8s] business as usual
[1702.6s] What have we done throughout the week?
[1705.5s] This is Adventism 101. Not just a
[1709.0s] gathering of people on Saturday morning.
[1711.1s] Throughout the week, we are witnesses to
[1715.4s] the lost and we are witnesses to the
[1718.6s] Lord. How? The way we engage the
[1722.1s] community. Isaiah said it best. It says,
[1727.4s] "Arise
[1729.5s] and shine
[1731.4s] for your light has come and the glory of
[1736.4s] the Lord rises upon you." Look at it.
[1739.6s] For behold, darkness shall cover the
[1742.6s] earth, and deep darkness the people, but
[1745.8s] the Lord will arise over you, and his
[1749.0s] glory will be seen upon you. The
[1751.7s] Gentiles shall come to your light and
[1755.0s] kings to the brightness of your rising.
[1757.8s] Kings don't come because you are only
[1759.4s] holy. Kings come because you have
[1761.0s] solutions. Gentiles will not come
[1763.4s] because you are holy. Gentiles come
[1765.4s] because you have the solutions of the
[1767.5s] world, of the community, of the society.
[1771.3s] The brains of Adventists are not being
[1773.8s] empowered to fix problems in the
[1776.6s] community.
[1779.1s] I believe in going to heaven.
[1782.7s] He said keep doing business till I hold
[1785.6s] I come.
[1791.3s] Our subject this night when nations are
[1793.7s] born the sacred assignment of campus
[1797.1s] ministry. If everybody in the church
[1798.9s] doesn't understand you the university
[1800.9s] graduate you need to birth a new
[1803.0s] Adventism very holy and rich. Tomorrow
[1806.0s] I'm going to talk about money and this
[1808.6s] thing that we talk about everybody is
[1810.1s] poor and we we want to build a church
[1811.8s] building 30 years we can't even build
[1813.6s] everybody is poor that foolishness will
[1815.7s] stop Ellen White has spoken about it the
[1818.6s] Bible has thought about it
[1821.4s] so tomorrow afternoon you better don't
[1823.2s] miss it you come here
[1827.0s] there is a text we like using
[1832.1s] what I'm talking about is evangelism
[1836.1s] It's evangelism.
[1839.1s] On Sunday morning, I'll be talking to
[1841.0s] the professionals and the and the men
[1843.1s] and women groups on Sunday morning
[1845.8s] before I check out. We are interested in
[1847.9s] winning watchmen, gatekeepers,
[1850.2s] charismatics are interested in winning
[1851.8s] the owners of the house.
[1854.5s] Then we come to Wednesday prayer
[1855.8s] meeting. Lord, the persecution is so
[1858.3s] high. Please sit down.
[1861.6s] Why were you when the big man that man
[1863.8s] who owns the house we won't target them
[1866.0s] because our evangelistic crusade a lot
[1868.6s] of planning and thinking is not going in
[1873.0s] Isaiah 58 verse 12 I'm going to spend
[1876.2s] some 30 minutes on this let's bow our
[1878.7s] heads again let's pray father in heaven
[1880.5s] my heart is pumping so fast we have
[1884.0s] misrepresented evangelism we don't
[1887.1s] leverage the power of social change. We
[1891.1s] pray today a new generation of Adventist
[1894.2s] Christians, believers will emerge who
[1896.7s] will understand the complete complete
[1899.8s] face of outreach. It's not just the
[1902.8s] preaching of ten commandments. It's much
[1905.0s] more than that. Give us understanding
[1907.4s] and let me use the words exactly how you
[1910.2s] want us to feel. guide my thought and my
[1913.2s] lips to honor you and be frank and very
[1916.5s] forthright but loving in Jesus's name.
[1920.4s] Let somebody say an amen. Amen. Look at
[1923.6s] the text. Isaiah 58:12.
[1928.2s] Those from among you shall build the old
[1932.6s] waste places.
[1935.5s] You shall raise up the foundations of
[1938.6s] many generations. and you shall be
[1941.1s] called the repairer of the bridge, the
[1945.5s] restorer of streets to dwell in.
[1950.1s] This text has a lot of application. One
[1953.8s] of them is talking about how we will be
[1956.0s] able to restore the Sabbath and the rest
[1958.2s] of it we use it very often. This evening
[1960.9s] I want you to look at it differently.
[1963.6s] So the first question is what period was
[1966.7s] this text given? Let me read the text
[1968.6s] again. Those from among you shall build
[1972.5s] the old waste places. You shall raise up
[1976.7s] the foundations of many generations and
[1980.0s] you shall be called the repairer of the
[1983.4s] bridge, the restorer of streets to dwell
[1987.2s] in. The question is what is the time
[1989.7s] period and the setting? This message was
[1992.7s] given by the Lord through the prophet
[1995.1s] Isaiah.
[1997.5s] Isaiah chapter 58 usually we call it the
[2001.3s] third and the final section of the book
[2003.7s] of Isaiah. The book of Isaiah is divided
[2005.5s] into three part. This is the third part
[2007.5s] from chapter 56 to chapter 66. We often
[2010.6s] refer to it as the the trito Isaiah. It
[2014.5s] is believed to be written after the
[2016.4s] their exit from exile in Babylon. So
[2019.0s] it's somewhere around 5 BC. It was the
[2022.5s] fifth century when this message was
[2025.2s] given. What was happening? Israel just
[2028.6s] left captivity. Their nation was in ru.
[2032.7s] The country was in rubble. And many
[2035.1s] people were discouraged.
[2037.6s] What was going on at that time? The
[2039.8s] temple has been destroyed. And though
[2042.4s] rebuilding was underway, Jerusalem still
[2045.4s] remained politically weak and
[2047.7s] economically unstable. The people were
[2050.5s] fasting and praying. They were expecting
[2053.2s] divine blessings. Yet they were not
[2055.5s] seeing the result. So they were engaged
[2058.5s] in a lot of religious rituals
[2061.5s] yet righteousness was absent in the
[2063.4s] land. They were bullying their people,
[2065.6s] stealing, taking advantage of people and
[2067.9s] cheating. And then they had the guts to
[2070.2s] ask God, why are we praying and you are
[2072.3s] not listening? Why are we fasting and
[2073.9s] you are not listening? And God got
[2075.6s] angry. God fired back and told them, is
[2078.2s] this the kind of fast I have chosen? You
[2080.6s] fast, but you exploit your workers. You
[2083.4s] bow your heads like a reed but won't
[2086.4s] break the chains of injustice. So God
[2088.6s] was frustrated. God blasted them.
[2092.1s] Why did I choose this chapter to make a
[2094.2s] major case this evening?
[2096.6s] We are at that place.
[2100.0s] This chapter gives a blueprint for
[2101.9s] national reformation. Evangelism is not
[2104.2s] just getting some people to go to heaven
[2106.0s] only. Evangelism is first to influence
[2109.2s] life. here when they see the qualitative
[2112.4s] influence they begin to ask about this
[2114.6s] God. We can't be Adventist and be quiet
[2117.5s] about what is happening to Kenya. No,
[2119.7s] it's unbiblical. Let me say that bold.
[2122.6s] It is unbiblical. We the Bible say pray
[2125.1s] for the peace of Jerusalem for in her
[2127.1s] peace you find your peace. Hear me. We
[2130.2s] must be interested in everything in
[2132.0s] Kenya. I'm going to give a biblical
[2134.1s] perspective now.
[2139.1s] God gave the children of Israel what to
[2142.4s] do to help the nation.
[2145.4s] And though they were worshiping, there
[2148.6s] was injustice.
[2151.5s] God also chose to give them a certain
[2155.8s] mental view of what they need to do in
[2159.4s] the nation, the role they must play.
[2162.7s] This is what was happening in the book
[2164.8s] of Isaiah. If I were to have time, I
[2167.3s] would have broken us into groups and
[2169.0s] given you few chapters of chapter 58 and
[2171.6s] ask you glean the lessons from it. Now
[2175.8s] I'm talking about where nations are
[2177.4s] born. The next 50 years of Kenya is
[2181.0s] already being developed in the
[2184.0s] University of Kenyata, in University of
[2186.2s] Nairobi,
[2187.8s] you name it. Whatever university it is,
[2190.2s] if you're watching from Africa, uh, West
[2192.2s] Africa, Southern Africa, the next
[2194.2s] generation of the nation we will be
[2196.5s] giving birth to is information now. So
[2199.3s] the universities is where nations are
[2201.1s] born. Now
[2203.4s] hear me loud. We were not saved to be
[2207.4s] spectators or to spectate in our
[2210.1s] nations.
[2212.8s] We were not called
[2215.4s] to be or we were not called just to
[2217.9s] comment on social media. We were not
[2221.6s] baptized to blend in.
[2225.7s] I've said three things. Number one, we
[2228.7s] were not saved
[2231.0s] to spectate.
[2233.6s] We were not called to comment.
[2237.8s] We were not baptized to blend in. God
[2242.6s] did not raise his church to sit in
[2246.1s] sanctuaries while cities sink. That was
[2249.8s] not God's plan. I've given you a New
[2252.6s] Testament version. Let your light shine.
[2256.0s] And then Isaiah says, "Those from among
[2259.3s] you
[2261.4s] shall build the old waste places.
[2266.1s] You shall raise up the foundations of
[2269.0s] many generations and you shall be called
[2271.9s] the repairer of the bridge, the restorer
[2275.6s] of streets to dwell in. There are seven
[2279.5s] truth in this one paragraph and that is
[2282.5s] going to be my focus today. Watch and
[2284.2s] follow me carefully. Look at the first
[2286.8s] phrase. those from among you
[2291.6s] in there is a solution for our new
[2295.0s] mindset for the new evangelism
[2297.1s] university students professionals you
[2299.3s] need to champion the issue is God's
[2303.0s] blueprint for national healing start
[2305.3s] with his people the Bible says those
[2309.0s] from among you God was speaking to
[2311.7s] church members not outsiders
[2315.0s] in other words God is not looking for
[2318.2s] outsiders to fix the mess in Kenya.
[2322.4s] He is calling for you.
[2325.0s] He is calling for us. The healing of
[2327.8s] Kenya, the healing of Ghana, the healing
[2330.7s] of Nigeria, the healing of Africa, the
[2333.4s] healing of Uganda
[2335.6s] will not come from having global
[2338.2s] conferences. It will come from a revived
[2341.7s] and a reforming church.
[2344.7s] So the Bible says those from among you
[2347.9s] if I want to fix the mess in Kenya it
[2350.7s] will come from my people.
[2354.1s] Take note this is the reason why I
[2356.4s] started by saying we were not saved to
[2360.7s] spectate.
[2362.3s] We were not called to comment. We were
[2366.0s] not baptized to blend in. God did not
[2370.2s] raise his church to sit in sanctuaries
[2373.8s] while cities sink.
[2376.4s] So what is the solution to Kenya's
[2379.8s] socioeconomic difficulty that the church
[2382.6s] can leverage for good? The Bible says
[2386.0s] those from among you. In other words,
[2388.3s] God's blueprint for the healing of
[2391.0s] Kenya, for the healing of Africa, for
[2393.5s] the healing of the world, it to start
[2396.3s] with his people.
[2399.3s] Follow me. Point number two.
[2402.7s] Look at the text again. Isaiah 58:12.
[2405.5s] Those from among you shall build the old
[2410.6s] waste places.
[2414.2s] Who will build the old waste places? The
[2418.0s] test is who build it? Those from among
[2421.8s] you. In other words, wasted places in
[2425.4s] your country,
[2427.3s] on our continent, in my country, among
[2431.1s] our people, wasted places are waiting
[2434.5s] for willing people.
[2437.5s] The broken systems today we complain
[2439.9s] about everybody's complaining.
[2441.6s] Everybody's complaining. The broken
[2443.4s] system, the abandoned dreams, the wasted
[2446.2s] potential of your nation, of your
[2449.1s] community, of your country. You are the
[2451.8s] light. The Bible says those who build
[2455.8s] the old places, they are not Gentiles.
[2459.6s] They are those from among you.
[2467.3s] Broken systems don't scare God.
[2469.8s] Abandoned dreams don't scare God. Wasted
[2472.6s] potential of Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria,
[2475.4s] Africa, you name it. They don't scare
[2477.6s] God. He's just waiting for a people with
[2481.4s] spiritual greets also with practical
[2484.3s] tools. Our problem as a church is we we
[2487.2s] focus too much on the spiritual.
[2489.1s] Adventism is holistic. That is why they
[2491.9s] call even Adventist education holistic
[2494.8s] education.
[2496.7s] Our evangelism must not only solve the
[2499.5s] spiritual condition. They don't know the
[2502.0s] truth. Tell them now. Tell them now.
[2505.4s] Yes. After telling them now, we also
[2507.7s] need to do now act. Solve the broken
[2511.2s] systems. The wasted places in Kenya are
[2515.2s] waiting for a willing people. Adventists
[2517.7s] in Kenya when you cough, Kenya must
[2520.4s] catch a cold. The young student on
[2523.0s] campus don't follow this lame dark
[2526.0s] approach to Adventism. Your voice must
[2529.4s] be heard in your department. Be a light
[2534.5s] in your community. Be when the road is
[2537.8s] spoiled. You are on the street for
[2540.2s] Adventist. Fix it. Begin to start. Rally
[2543.9s] the community. That is what we call
[2546.2s] evangelism 101. It's not a matter of
[2549.0s] coming to church working with with your
[2550.7s] 4x4 on a broken road and you come here
[2552.9s] piety. Father in heaven, we thank you
[2554.9s] for the Sabbath. Get out. Go to the
[2557.0s] community and fix the problem.
[2560.1s] Wasted places.
[2562.4s] are waiting for a willing people.
[2565.9s] I've said two things. Number one, God's
[2568.6s] blueprint for national healing start not
[2571.2s] with Muslims but start with his people,
[2574.4s] not with agnostics,
[2576.5s] not with Buddhists, not with Shintus.
[2580.1s] God's blueprint for national healing
[2582.5s] start with his people. Number two, we
[2585.1s] are called to build the old west places.
[2589.0s] It also include the wasted injustice
[2592.8s] system,
[2594.3s] the corrupt
[2596.9s] public sector,
[2599.0s] the reckless
[2601.7s] military or police service, wasted
[2605.1s] places are waiting for a willing people.
[2610.6s] And that takes me to point number three.
[2613.1s] And then we said in point number three,
[2618.3s] those from among you shall build the old
[2622.2s] west places.
[2624.4s] You shall raise up the foundations
[2628.2s] of many generations. Take note. In this
[2632.1s] three phrases, God is saying the church
[2636.8s] must become a generation building
[2639.4s] machine. How do I know? Watch it again.
[2643.2s] Those from among you, after you build
[2646.6s] the old west places, then you shall
[2650.2s] raise foundations
[2653.4s] of many generations.
[2657.5s] In other words, the church must become
[2661.6s] generation building machine. The next
[2664.2s] generation of engineers must emerge from
[2667.0s] the church. The next generation of
[2669.6s] social activists must emerge from the
[2672.6s] church. The next generation of
[2674.6s] innovators must emerge from the church.
[2677.8s] The next generation of fashion designers
[2680.6s] must emerge from the church. We complain
[2683.4s] morality has gone down. Take leadership.
[2686.9s] Stop talking. begin to design the top
[2690.2s] class fabric to fit the modern the Jenzi
[2693.8s] group in Nairobi, in Kenya, in East
[2697.3s] Africa, in West Africa. The church must
[2701.0s] become a generation building machine.
[2702.9s] Our sermons must also build church
[2705.4s] members. Not to tell them forget
[2707.8s] everything on this earth just think
[2709.4s] about heaven. No, that is unbiblical.
[2713.4s] We will work. He will meet us working
[2716.2s] and he will take us to his kingdom.
[2717.8s] Somebody should say an amen out there.
[2720.6s] It is biblical.
[2723.1s] So the engineers,
[2726.3s] lecturers, professors, thought leaders,
[2728.9s] all of them have locked their mind. Why?
[2731.2s] We are going to heaven. Yes, we are
[2732.6s] going to heaven. No doubt about it. It's
[2734.8s] the most climatic event in earth
[2737.3s] history. But like the world dances,
[2740.8s] until then, let's build the next
[2745.4s] generation
[2747.8s] of change makers for Kenya.
[2754.1s] So the sermons,
[2756.2s] the teachings,
[2758.0s] the conceptualization,
[2760.3s] our girls must not only sing father
[2762.8s] Abraham like the things I talked about
[2765.4s] today. A why should let the young people
[2768.4s] know the role of the church in history.
[2770.8s] Not just what the church did in the old
[2772.6s] and the new testament. What the church
[2774.3s] did in the 15th century, the 4th
[2776.3s] century, the third century, how the
[2778.6s] church shape modern civilization. If you
[2781.9s] take the church out, the world today
[2783.9s] will have been a primitive place. Today
[2787.0s] the Christian church has has has been
[2789.0s] outplayed by other religions. So you go
[2792.5s] to a place if you're a pastor sometimes
[2794.5s] we sit down there sit down there why the
[2798.6s] church has lost grips in building
[2803.2s] the next generation of change agents.
[2806.1s] I'm saying God's blueprint for national
[2808.8s] for national healing start with his
[2810.6s] people those from among you. Number two
[2813.3s] wasted places are waiting for a willing
[2815.9s] people. Number three, the church must
[2818.8s] become a generation building machine.
[2821.4s] And do you know the sad part? The church
[2823.9s] herself cannot keep her own young people
[2826.1s] from even believing what the church is
[2827.6s] teaching.
[2829.2s] She can't even play her indoor games
[2831.0s] well to the point that preparing her
[2832.8s] indoor children to shape the world. Our
[2836.2s] young people are exiting the church.
[2838.6s] Even our own beliefs, they can't even
[2840.4s] keep it. How dare us even their dream to
[2843.1s] prepare them to face the world. So there
[2846.2s] is a problem and the new generation of
[2848.5s] Adventist students you are not going to
[2850.6s] do that. One of our hymns says
[2853.4s] rise up courageous youth the church for
[2856.8s] you that way. Her strength is unequal to
[2860.8s] her task. Rise up and make her great. My
[2864.4s] grandmother, my mother, they have led to
[2866.9s] where they have reached. This new
[2868.7s] generation of Adventist University
[2870.7s] student think outside the box.
[2873.4s] evangelism and outreach. God has called
[2875.8s] you for this season, for this time. So
[2879.6s] you must become a change agent. Isaiah
[2883.4s] said, "Those from among you shall build
[2886.6s] the old waste places. You shall raise up
[2889.9s] the foundations not just of one
[2891.7s] generation, of many generations, and you
[2894.8s] shall be called the repairer of the
[2898.4s] bridge." Take note of that. In there I
[2901.4s] see a principle. We are called to be
[2904.2s] repairers, not reporters.
[2909.1s] Anyone can point at what is broken. But
[2912.3s] God is raising people, raising some
[2915.0s] young people who will stand in the gap.
[2918.2s] Not just talk about the gap. They will
[2920.7s] stand in between the gap and fix the
[2924.0s] mess and fix the problem. So I say we
[2927.4s] are called to repair the moral
[2930.5s] degragence in our society, immorality,
[2933.7s] corruption, broken system. We are not
[2936.2s] just to be reporting and laughing at it
[2938.1s] and making cracking jokes out of it.
[2940.7s] When anything you see in Kenya that is
[2943.4s] wrong, you tell the Lord, "Give me the
[2945.7s] burdens and the tools in my lifetime.
[2948.7s] Let me fix it." Then when you finish
[2951.0s] fixing it, people are, "Wow, who is this
[2954.2s] young man? Who is this young lady? And
[2956.3s] when you are being interviewed, you let
[2958.1s] the whole world know you are a seventh
[2960.4s] day Adventist. Quit evangelism is better
[2963.8s] than that.
[2971.1s] I've said four things. God's blueprint
[2973.7s] for national building healing starts
[2976.0s] with his people. Wasted places are
[2978.6s] waiting for a willing people. The church
[2980.9s] must become a generation building
[2983.0s] machines. So not everybody can be doing
[2986.3s] children's program. I have passion for
[2988.1s] children's program. We need to educate
[2990.0s] those who teach the children in the
[2991.0s] Sabbath school and the rest of it. The
[2992.9s] new a new mindset must emerge from the
[2995.0s] Sabbath school class. My time it was
[2997.3s] give me
[3001.7s] we know that father Abraham
[3005.4s] many we know that 2025 we can't do that.
[3007.8s] Please we've done rot and not we tie the
[3010.5s] knot. They said when the persecution is
[3012.2s] coming, we will be in the bushes. Fine.
[3014.1s] Now with an AI, a new generation of
[3016.2s] Sabbath school teachers must emerge.
[3021.8s] Why? The church must become a generation
[3025.1s] building machine. So there are some
[3027.7s] agnostic boys in China. There are some
[3031.5s] Buddhists in India. There are some
[3035.2s] atheists right now in Georgia. And they
[3039.0s] are developing the the what will control
[3042.0s] us for the next 30 years. Our girls and
[3044.7s] boys must emerge with Christ's mindset.
[3048.1s] Who will be in the marketplace, compete
[3050.6s] with them, beat them hands down and
[3053.0s] convert them. Somebody should say an
[3054.8s] amen to that one. This is where we got
[3057.4s] to be. Not the same. We put four stick,
[3060.2s] one stick, one stick, one stick, then we
[3062.8s] put a cloth around it like a shrine. The
[3065.4s] evangelistic pulpit is like a shrine.
[3067.8s] Green cloth. Green cloth toss it to a
[3070.1s] toxic. Then then we come with your this
[3073.8s] kind of song.
[3076.2s] Hey yeah,
[3081.3s] we in 2025
[3083.4s] that will have its place. Then our
[3085.5s] microphones cannot even sustain it. Then
[3087.4s] we are using some white cloth for
[3089.2s] projection and we can't even see. It is
[3091.3s] like day and night. The whole thing is
[3093.4s] if you watch it for 10 days you you you
[3096.1s] have glaucoma.
[3103.0s] We are called to be repairers not
[3106.6s] reporters.
[3108.2s] So whatever is happening wrong in Kenya
[3110.5s] is good. We will complain. I was there
[3113.1s] last year doing evangelistic meeting.
[3115.2s] Young people were on the street. All
[3117.0s] right. It's a liberty. They need to be
[3119.0s] on the street. It's their right. If they
[3120.6s] do it according to law. Yesterday or two
[3122.9s] days ago, young people were on the
[3124.2s] street. after the street. We need to fix
[3127.6s] a problem.
[3130.8s] Let's think outside the box. One way is
[3133.5s] to protect. What are the other ways? We
[3136.4s] need Adventist young people who are not
[3138.6s] just reporting sharing. Hey, the
[3140.3s] demonstration is happening. Something's
[3141.7s] happening in Kenya
[3143.9s] ra. We are called to be repairers, not
[3148.1s] reporters. Problem solvers, not running
[3151.4s] commentary on the problem. Isaiah said,
[3154.5s] "Those from among you shall build the
[3157.1s] old west places. You shall raise up the
[3160.1s] foundations of many generation, and you
[3162.3s] shall be called the repairer of the
[3164.4s] bridge." And it says, "The restorer of
[3167.4s] streets to dwell in." My focus is
[3170.9s] restorer of streets to dwell in. In
[3173.8s] there, I see a principle. Transformation
[3176.9s] begins when the church moves from the
[3179.7s] sanctuary to the streets.
[3183.1s] Watch the text carefully.
[3185.4s] Those from among you shall build the old
[3187.0s] places. You shall raise up the
[3188.6s] foundations of many generations. And you
[3190.6s] shall be called the repairer of the
[3192.8s] bridge, the restorer of streets to dwell
[3197.4s] in. In excent, if our theology doesn't
[3201.7s] touch the streets, our gospel is
[3204.2s] incomplete.
[3206.6s] Urban renewal, economic ethics, youth
[3210.9s] empowerment, health system, social
[3214.0s] advocacy. These are no side project.
[3217.3s] They are sacred mission is part of
[3220.2s] evangelism.
[3225.5s] Point number six,
[3227.8s] watch the text carefully. When the Bible
[3230.2s] says repairer of the bridge, I see
[3232.2s] another point there. Silence in the face
[3235.2s] of decay is spiritual negligence.
[3240.2s] We are always quiet while foundations
[3242.6s] crumble. We are not neutral. We are
[3245.4s] negligent.
[3247.3s] When the nation is being run to abyss,
[3250.8s] we need to stand and say this is wrong.
[3254.2s] This is wrong. Listen, there is a time
[3257.2s] Jesus will speak. There is a time Jesus
[3259.6s] will be silent. It takes wisdom to know
[3262.6s] the difference.
[3265.8s] A bridge
[3267.5s] implies a gap, a wound, a national
[3271.0s] breakdown, moral or spiritual or social.
[3274.2s] So if the Bible say you are the
[3276.1s] repairer,
[3277.6s] one must first notice the damage. So
[3279.9s] what is the damage in Kenya? What is the
[3282.2s] problem with Kenya? from the educational
[3284.2s] sector to the health sector to the
[3285.7s] economic sector to the cultural or the
[3287.5s] political landscape. Every Adventist
[3290.0s] professional, Adventist student on
[3292.1s] campus, you must be able to understand
[3295.0s] what is happening in Kenya. Why? It is
[3297.7s] part of a way to influence conversation
[3300.2s] and social change. Evangelism is not
[3303.7s] just what we do. There is more to it.
[3311.6s] It is a moral obligation.
[3315.3s] It is a moral obligation.
[3317.6s] So when the Bible talks about we are to
[3322.0s] be the restorer of streets to dwell in
[3326.6s] the church cannot keep being in the
[3329.3s] church house and say I am fulfilling the
[3332.7s] mandate. No get on the streets. The
[3336.5s] streets may involve the streets of
[3337.8s] academia. The street of running
[3342.4s] an NGO, the street of signs, the street
[3345.8s] of commerce, the street of now we have
[3348.3s] the African continental free trade area.
[3351.0s] What is its implication? How can
[3353.2s] Adventist leverage it? What can we see
[3355.3s] in between? Hear me. I've made some
[3358.6s] point this evening. God's blueprint for
[3360.9s] national healing start with his people.
[3363.4s] Number two, wasted places are waiting
[3366.2s] for a willing people. Number three, the
[3368.6s] church must become a generation building
[3370.7s] machine. Number four, we are called to
[3373.8s] be repairers, not reporters. And I'm
[3376.7s] saying transformation begins when the
[3379.4s] church moves from the sanctuary to the
[3381.6s] street. And then I'm saying silence in
[3385.0s] the face of decay is spiritual
[3387.9s] negligence. And the last point then is
[3392.6s] those from among you shall build the old
[3396.1s] west places. You shall raise up the
[3398.9s] foundations of many generations and you
[3401.9s] shall be called the repairer of the
[3403.6s] bridge. The restorer of streets to dwell
[3407.1s] in. And I say revival without rebuilding
[3411.6s] is incomplete.
[3414.3s] Let's rebuild our communities. Let's
[3417.4s] rebuild our institutions. Let's rebuild.
[3420.8s] Ladies and gentlemen, the university
[3422.8s] students, you are the best. And if you
[3425.1s] are a professional listening to me this
[3427.4s] evening or under God's voice this
[3429.8s] evening, if you are not averetting your
[3433.0s] minds to these areas, you have failed
[3435.4s] us. Now hear me. In 2025 and beyond, you
[3440.3s] can't do evangelism in Africa without
[3442.9s] offering employment solutions to the
[3446.2s] audience. You know, we are stuck to the
[3448.8s] charcoal and clay uh how do you call it
[3451.4s] health reform medical missionary is good
[3454.2s] aside medical mission. If Ellen White
[3455.9s] was alive today and she was writing
[3457.9s] modules that will serve as open words
[3460.1s] for the gospel, it will be she will talk
[3462.5s] about employment and I will quote some
[3465.0s] statement from the book ministry of
[3467.4s] healing. See, I've checked the
[3469.7s] unemployment rate in African countries.
[3472.8s] I've checked the undermployment.
[3476.1s] People who are employed, they are not
[3477.6s] paid well. They are not working the full
[3479.8s] hours. It's crazy. I've checked Kenya's
[3482.4s] data. I've checked the data. Now when
[3486.0s] they are talking about how will we fix
[3488.2s] the problem of unemployment in Kenya and
[3491.0s] guess what people say let's pray about
[3492.8s] it let me show you what Ellen White said
[3495.6s] what we must do it will blow your mind
[3498.5s] anybody who tells you evangelism is just
[3501.2s] the preaching of of the mark of the
[3503.0s] beast and the rest of it is one part
[3505.4s] another part is to influence society
[3508.3s] through knowledge knowledge product
[3512.6s] watch I'm taking this quote from the
[3514.8s] ministry of healing. Go and check from
[3516.3s] page 183 down. I will quote a couple of
[3519.8s] them and I'll extract the lessons and we
[3521.8s] call it a day. There are largehearted
[3524.5s] men and women who are anxiously
[3527.1s] considering the conditions of the poor
[3529.8s] and what means can be found for their
[3532.7s] relief. How the unemployed and the
[3535.8s] homeless can be helped to secure the
[3538.2s] common blessings of God's providence and
[3540.4s] to live the life he intended man to live
[3543.6s] is a question to which many are
[3546.2s] earnestly and devouring to find an
[3549.4s] answer. In this statement, Ellen White
[3551.8s] says, "Many are in search of answers to
[3555.8s] our social economic wos." Take note. She
[3560.9s] said, "Many people, how do we take care
[3563.0s] of the poor? How do we deal with
[3564.2s] unemployment? Many people are talking
[3566.2s] about it. And guess what? Whilst the
[3568.2s] world is looking for answers for this,
[3569.9s] our only respond is Jesus is coming
[3571.9s] again. Until he comes, the person is
[3575.0s] hungry now. Until he comes in the cloud,
[3578.1s] what must be done?" Ellen White offered
[3580.6s] an answer. and university student. This
[3583.0s] is why I encourage you read the spirit
[3585.8s] of prophecy. Distill lessons out of it
[3588.8s] and use it to shape the policies within
[3592.0s] your sectors. Ellen White says
[3595.0s] but there are not many take note the
[3598.2s] first one she says where is it there are
[3601.7s] largeed men and women large numbers who
[3605.6s] are asking how do we deal with
[3607.1s] unemployment? Now she's saying there are
[3610.7s] not many even among educators,
[3614.2s] professors, statemen, politicians who
[3618.1s] comprehend the causes that underly the
[3621.8s] present state of society.
[3624.2s] Those who hold the rims of government,
[3626.5s] politicians are unable to solve the
[3629.5s] problem of poverty, perism, and
[3632.3s] increasing crime. They are struggling in
[3636.0s] vain to place business operation on a
[3639.1s] more secure basis. Watch listen to the
[3642.0s] news. Watch the news. This is the issue.
[3644.2s] Government is having cabinet meeting.
[3646.4s] They are doing calling consultant. How
[3649.1s] do we deal with the problem? The
[3650.6s] problems are one poverty, two perism,
[3656.0s] three crime
[3658.5s] and four how do we stable or incite the
[3663.2s] the various economic variables to make
[3666.2s] businesses thrive. Ellen White says this
[3668.7s] is the headache and few people have the
[3671.1s] answers question. Adventists have been
[3674.3s] given this answer. But all we do is our
[3677.3s] young men are not taught to become
[3679.4s] policy think tanks that offer solutions
[3681.8s] to the problem of the world. They know
[3683.9s] us to be people who sing. With the
[3685.8s] greatest of respect to my musicians, you
[3687.5s] sang very well.
[3689.6s] [Music]
[3695.0s] After doing the who, we need another
[3697.0s] group that will be thinkers.
[3699.6s] They will think how do we solve poverty?
[3702.5s] How do we solve? How do we deal with
[3704.9s] this? So everybody listen I was telling
[3707.3s] somebody if you are a bar singer you
[3709.0s] want to marry my daughter I will suck
[3710.3s] you is on a lighter note.
[3714.3s] So Ellen White has given solution that
[3717.1s] will make us relevant to the difficulty.
[3719.9s] So President R and the rest they are
[3722.4s] struggling. How do we deal with the
[3723.9s] problem? There is mass protest.
[3725.7s] Adventists will come up with a working
[3727.7s] document with a heaven stamp guarantee.
[3731.8s] It will succeed. But what are we doing?
[3734.7s] Coming again. Coming. What? We are
[3737.9s] hungry. What is the solution? Jesus is
[3739.6s] coming again. We are sick. What is the
[3741.1s] solution? Jesus will end suffering. We
[3742.9s] are this. What is the new Jerusalem?
[3747.1s] No. A new generation of Adventists will
[3750.7s] say yes Jesus will come ultimately in
[3753.3s] the intervening period. Here is a policy
[3755.5s] direction that fix the issue. And Ellen
[3757.8s] White has talked about it. So she's
[3759.8s] saying very few have the answers to our
[3764.2s] social, cultural, political and economic
[3767.4s] woes.
[3769.4s] So she started there is a problem.
[3771.1s] Number two, politicians don't even have
[3772.8s] it. Lecturers in the universities they
[3775.5s] don't even know the answers according to
[3777.1s] the spirit of prophecy. So where is the
[3779.7s] answer? Look at it. Point number three.
[3782.9s] If men will give more heed to the
[3785.8s] teaching of God's word, they will find a
[3788.6s] solution
[3790.4s] of these problems that perplex them.
[3793.0s] Take note, much might be learned from
[3796.0s] the Old Testament in regard to the labor
[3799.5s] question, labor work and the relief of
[3802.8s] the poor. Ellen White says, "Look, once
[3805.5s] politicians and state statemen are
[3807.8s] struggling, what is the solution?" She
[3809.7s] says, "Oh, if only they will read the
[3811.7s] Old Testament, God has already enshrined
[3815.0s] answers." So, some of you are writing
[3816.9s] proposals on how to be able to help a
[3819.2s] certain sector. Just take the spirit of
[3821.0s] prophecy in the Bible and glean the
[3823.8s] principles. So, she says, "We have an
[3826.8s] advantage. God's word is the well of
[3830.4s] wisdom for our national healing." In
[3833.1s] other words, God's word is holds the
[3836.5s] answers to our social and economic
[3839.0s] struggle. In other words, scripture is
[3841.7s] not just spiritual. It speaks to our
[3844.0s] social economic crisis. And if you want,
[3847.3s] listen, the Bible is our blueprint for
[3850.6s] economic social breakthrough. So, it's
[3853.1s] not just about going to heaven. Ellen
[3855.0s] White says there are practical
[3856.9s] solutions.
[3858.8s] What is that solution?
[3861.1s] Ministry of healing page 183 to 186. And
[3863.9s] I glean in God's plan for Israel. Every
[3868.3s] family had a home on the land with
[3871.7s] sufficient ground for tealing. Thus were
[3875.2s] provided both the means and the
[3877.9s] incentives
[3879.5s] for a useful industrious and a
[3881.9s] selfsupporting life. Then she went on
[3884.7s] and no devising of men. So she says look
[3888.7s] God's solution is agriculture.
[3891.9s] That's what she's saying. Then Ellen
[3893.7s] White says and no devising of men has
[3898.1s] ever improved upon that plan. Take note.
[3901.6s] No devising of men. So the UN can meet
[3904.7s] all the people can meet. Did you read
[3906.6s] this in your ministry of healing?
[3910.6s] So Eli says it is a time-tested
[3913.4s] strategy. No amount of UNESCO UN World
[3917.4s] Bank meeting can change it. Here is a
[3920.1s] million dollar or billion dollar idea in
[3924.1s] reversing the poverty in Africa to the
[3927.1s] world's departure from it is owing to a
[3930.2s] large degree the poverty and the
[3932.3s] wretchedness that exists today. She says
[3934.5s] our departure from God's ideal of every
[3938.5s] family, every household having a an
[3942.0s] agriculture inside. she says is a reason
[3945.0s] the world is struggling today. And then
[3947.0s] she said the tilling of the soil, the
[3950.0s] employment that God appointed to Adam in
[3951.8s] Eden opens a field in which there is
[3955.0s] opportunity for multitudes to gain a a
[3958.6s] subsistence. In other words, the road to
[3961.3s] prosperity
[3963.5s] runs through our farms and factories.
[3967.9s] Now, there is a whole book she wrote,
[3969.5s] how you should farm so that you will not
[3971.5s] lose. She dealt with it. I'm talking
[3974.0s] about you. So if you are meeting as a
[3977.5s] student group SDA fellowship, it's not
[3980.2s] just these people only talk about
[3981.8s] heaven. No, they also talk about how to
[3984.3s] solve the problems of Kenya. Then you
[3986.5s] are gaining relevance. People will
[3988.8s] listen to us. Minister of healing page
[3991.8s] 194, attention should be given to the
[3994.3s] establishment of various industries.
[3998.1s] Take note. Ellen White says if the
[4000.6s] nation want to solve the problem
[4002.4s] attention should be given to the
[4004.7s] establishment of industries and then she
[4007.4s] said and no devising of man has ever
[4010.3s] improved upon this. In other words, job
[4012.5s] creation is through industry.
[4018.3s] And as the church must ask, how many
[4020.5s] industries have we
[4026.1s] created?
[4029.4s] I can go on and on. Somewhere else you
[4032.6s] said in Israel industrial training was
[4037.7s] regarded as a duty. Every father was
[4041.8s] required to teach his sons some useful
[4044.8s] trade. The greatest men in Israel were
[4048.5s] trained in industrial pursuit. A
[4051.4s] knowledge of the duties pertaining to
[4053.8s] housewife was considered essential for
[4056.5s] every woman and skills in these duties
[4059.7s] are regarded as honor to women of the
[4062.2s] highest station. Various industries were
[4065.0s] taught in the schools of the prophet and
[4067.4s] many of the students sustained
[4069.1s] themselves by manual labor. Our
[4072.3s] theological school must take it. Many of
[4075.7s] the students from the school of the
[4077.4s] prophet they fed themselves by doing
[4080.9s] manual labor.
[4083.2s] So what is Ellen White saying? She says
[4085.8s] the plan of life that God gave to Israel
[4088.7s] was intended as an object lesson for all
[4092.3s] mankind. She's saying the whole world do
[4095.2s] you want to elevate poverty? Look at the
[4097.8s] Israeli economy. Do you want to deal
[4100.0s] with with with with hunger, with food,
[4102.6s] with difficulty, with populism, with
[4104.6s] crime? Look at what I did with Israel.
[4109.0s] Within the vast boundaries of nature,
[4111.1s] there is still room for the suffering
[4112.6s] and needed to find a home. Within her
[4115.1s] bosom, there are resources sufficient to
[4117.8s] provide them with food. Hidden in the
[4119.8s] depth of the earth are blessings for all
[4122.6s] who have courage and will and
[4125.0s] perseverance to gather her treasures. In
[4127.1s] other words, before you can get money,
[4129.1s] watch the soil. The blessings are not on
[4132.0s] the soil. They are in the soil.
[4136.1s] Attention
[4137.7s] should be given to the establishment of
[4139.8s] various industries so that poor families
[4142.3s] can find employment. Carpenters,
[4144.5s] blacksmith and indeed everyone who
[4146.9s] understands some line of useful labor
[4149.2s] should feel a responsibility to teach
[4152.2s] and to help the ignorant and the
[4154.1s] unemployed. How can you organize a
[4155.8s] crusade in 2025? And you are talking
[4158.7s] only about one area of life. Ellen White
[4161.0s] says you can't do crusade evangelism
[4164.1s] 2025. So where we used to do health
[4166.7s] messages, we will split it between
[4169.0s] health messages and entrepreneurship,
[4172.5s] job creation and you the university
[4175.2s] student insist on it. When you are
[4177.6s] organizing campus campaign, it's not
[4179.8s] just the mark of the beast. It's how to
[4181.7s] deal with poverty, how to deal with
[4184.2s] business, how to deal with jobs.
[4187.8s] Anybody who challenges you, tell them
[4190.2s] Ellen Y has provided a solution. And she
[4192.7s] says all the meetings in the world they
[4195.4s] will not find the answer. This is the
[4197.7s] answer.
[4201.4s] Let the boys and the girls be taught
[4203.8s] thoroughly taught some useful trade or
[4206.7s] occupation. So you find our young
[4208.5s] student they graduated from school and
[4210.2s] they are just there. I can't find a job.
[4211.8s] Ellen White says you can't do that.
[4215.4s] In ence, job creation through industry,
[4219.5s] technical and vocational education is a
[4222.0s] major source of relief. This is what the
[4223.8s] spirit of prophecy is saying.
[4227.8s] Bible religion never make men's idols.
[4230.7s] Ellen White says it does not teach us to
[4233.1s] escape from a life of toil and
[4235.0s] responsibility. Idleness is sin. Every
[4238.5s] man and woman who is truly converted
[4240.7s] will be a worker. He will not shun
[4243.1s] responsibility. Idleness opened the door
[4246.2s] to temptation. So she say teach work as
[4250.5s] part of worship.
[4254.9s] Did Paul not say for even when we were
[4257.5s] with you we commanded you this if anyone
[4260.9s] will not work neither shall he eat.
[4265.4s] Jesus says I must work the work of him
[4268.6s] who sent me while it is day. The night
[4271.7s] is coming when no one can work. Ladies
[4275.4s] and gentlemen, it is clear. The issue is
[4279.6s] we are to build when nations are born.
[4284.2s] The secret assignment of campus
[4287.9s] ministries.
[4289.9s] Remember we are the light of the world.
[4293.4s] Light conquers darkness.
[4296.4s] Light colors darkness.
[4299.6s] Light aside everything changes darkness.
[4304.8s] Light conditions darkness. And why do we
[4308.9s] do it? What is the purpose? To serve as
[4311.6s] a witness to the lost and to serve as a
[4315.6s] witness to the Lord. The question this
[4318.8s] evening is this.
[4323.0s] How many persons feel there is much more
[4326.6s] to Adventist outreach than we see today?
[4329.5s] Let me see your hand. There is much
[4331.3s] more. Hands down. You didn't get me.
[4336.7s] How many people want to be ambassadors
[4340.7s] of this by all? It's an ancient
[4344.2s] philosophy, ancient principle. Now in my
[4347.8s] local church,
[4349.9s] we will be useful to the community.
[4352.6s] myself. I must offer solutions to the
[4355.3s] world whilst I wait to go to heaven. I
[4358.3s] need to influence the world here. How
[4360.7s] many persons feel it is a Christian
[4363.0s] responsibility? Let me see your hand.
[4366.2s] Hands down. Lastly,
[4369.8s] how many persons want to listen to this
[4372.0s] and go back and do more of the same?
[4374.2s] Hands up.
[4378.2s] How many persons want to say dear God?
[4387.0s] I want to be part of the solution.
[4390.0s] I don't want to be part of the problem.
[4392.2s] I don't want to be part of those who
[4393.4s] only complain. I want to be part of the
[4396.1s] solution. Let me see your hand. Come
[4398.8s] kneel here. I want to pray with you.
[4400.2s] Come up. Don't talk. Just walk and come.
[4406.7s] Who is the organist?
[4411.4s] Can you play the song Work for the Night
[4413.4s] is coming?
[4415.2s] Just walk right down and come here and
[4417.4s] kneel down right here.
[4419.5s] [Music]
[4421.5s] Go on your knees.
[4428.3s] Please come.
[4430.6s] Those of you joining online,
[4434.8s] just type
[4436.9s] I will do by God's grace. I will do by
[4442.6s] God's grace.
[4446.2s] Just move and come. You can come right
[4447.6s] here.
[4450.4s] [Music]
[4455.8s] Kenya must know us.
[4458.4s] Not just because we go to church on
[4459.9s] Saturday, we solve the problems in
[4462.2s] Kenya,
[4463.8s] the problem of injustice, the problem of
[4466.7s] health, the problem of inequality.
[4470.8s] And I pray that God will make some
[4472.8s] Adventists own industries.
[4477.0s] Old commercial farms
[4480.1s] employ people.
[4481.7s] [Music]
[4485.0s] Let us pray. Father in heaven as the
[4487.3s] music is being played
[4491.6s] what's
[4493.2s] depressing
[4495.8s] we have not done well
[4499.4s] for lack of knowledge when people
[4501.9s] perish.
[4504.6s] The church
[4506.3s] in the past has changed society.
[4509.5s] The church today
[4511.7s] must do better. Those of us in this
[4514.6s] auditorium,
[4516.2s] those of us watching online,
[4518.9s] we refuse to be spectators
[4522.7s] in the social, cultural, economic and
[4525.0s] political dynamics of our era and our
[4528.6s] day. We will be holy and will be rich.
[4533.6s] We will not just complain will be the
[4536.2s] solutions.
[4538.7s] the next generation of Kenyans the
[4541.4s] quality of the life in Kenya we will
[4544.3s] participate in building
[4547.3s] Lord please
[4550.4s] if I have heard in the way I'm
[4554.1s] passionate about it forgive me but one
[4557.2s] thing is sure through the Bible and the
[4560.3s] spirit of prophecy you have given us a
[4562.5s] blueprint to make our church and our
[4566.0s] belief system a force to reckon with. We
[4569.9s] have settled for very little. We have
[4572.6s] misrepresented this whole salvation
[4574.6s] concept. Heaven is the goal. But until
[4577.9s] then, we will influence life here. Bless
[4582.6s] the students here. Bless the
[4585.4s] professionals here. Anybody both online
[4588.4s] and in person who desires that by the
[4592.1s] grace of God, I will not just spectate.
[4596.6s] I will be a citizen. I will not just
[4601.1s] tweet. I will cause a revolution. I will
[4605.8s] not just complain. I will do something
[4609.1s] about the difficulty. Bless those
[4612.2s] decisions out of this audience. raise a
[4615.8s] generation of Adventists. Whether they
[4618.2s] are professors in the universities, they
[4620.3s] will offer solutions to Kenya and
[4622.4s] Africa. Whether they are captains of
[4625.0s] industry, they will be forced to reckon
[4627.8s] with. Whether they are entrepreneurs,
[4630.6s] they will change the status quo, whether
[4633.6s] they are civil servant, they will serve
[4636.3s] with integrity and dignity. We pray for
[4640.1s] our church. We pray for her leadership.
[4642.7s] We pray for we pray for all sectors of
[4645.6s] this church. This is the remnant of
[4647.7s] Bible prophecy. May we pick up the
[4650.1s] jewels of truth. May we redefine
[4653.0s] outreach and may we shape continent when
[4656.2s] you come. May it be a reward time. Find
[4660.7s] us worthy not because we idled but
[4665.4s] because we work. We build the bridges.
[4669.0s] We repair the streets and the walls. we
[4672.2s] transform lives using biblical
[4674.8s] principles and using the writings of
[4677.4s] Ellen White. Help us. May data give us
[4681.9s] indicators on what to do. May we become
[4685.0s] like the sons of Issacha who understood
[4687.8s] the time and they knew what Israel ought
[4691.0s] to do. We pray for the professionals.
[4693.8s] Bless them out of our professionals.
[4697.1s] raise a generation of impeccable force
[4700.4s] to reckon with intellectuals,
[4703.3s] industry folks. They are at the cutting
[4705.8s] edge of their trade. They are brilliant.
[4710.0s] They are principle. They are godly. They
[4713.2s] are visionary and they are
[4715.0s] forwardlooking. Bless our students in
[4717.9s] school. May they stand out when others
[4720.8s] stand. As we go to our places of rest
[4723.8s] and abold, preparing for tomorrow's
[4726.6s] service on Sabbath, we pray go before
[4729.6s] us. Bless our online audience. Is being
[4733.0s] seven days of teaching and study. May
[4736.8s] these hours spent not go waste. May we
[4740.6s] leverage this unique ministry of campus
[4744.3s] ministry. May a movement emerge. Please,
[4748.1s] where I have heard in the course of the
[4749.8s] week, forgive me and use me a vessel to
[4753.1s] your glory. In Jesus's name, we have
[4756.3s] prayed. Let's somebody say an amen.
[4759.0s] Amen. God bless you. You can have a
[4761.1s] seat.
[4763.1s] [Music]