Title: Sermon || Invading the Intellectual Jungle || Pr. Godswill T.K Mensah  || Part 2
Video ID: Wj0uByLcUX8
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wj0uByLcUX8
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
How are you doing? I want to tell the musicians the music today decent and excellent. Let me say it one more time. Perhaps it's one of the best musics I've heard since Saturday. The music to me they were good and they were decent and we want to encourage them. That is not to say those who sank before it was not the best but every music ministers in a very unique way. So God bless you for this evening. I will take a little of your time. What we will be sharing this evening is perhaps the most important from where I stand so far. So yesterday we titled it invading the intellectual jungle and the subheading was turning secular campuses into spiritual lunch parts. Today we will do the part two. But as I always do, it was Jesus himself who said, "If you continue in my words, then you are my disciples indeed and you shall know the truth and the truth shall set you free. If the son set you free, you will be free indeed." Can someone say a hearty amen out there? That's a weak one. It's not like from East Africa yet. Can someone say a hearty amen out there? I can manage this one. I make to you four promises. Promise number one is the Bible shall be the bedrock of our study. And the reason is the Bible means what it says and says yes what it means. Promise number two, you shall be enlightened irrespective of who you are. Promise number three, you are going to be challenged to make the most important decision of your life. And then promise number four, our lives, your life and mine will never be the same. Our subject for this hour is basically what we title invading the intellectual jungle. turning secular campuses into spiritual lunch pads. in excent how can we convert university of Nairobi or UN University of is it uh no your other president what's the name Jumo Kenyata University uh whichever you may be those of you joining from different parts of the continent how do we convert the university campuses into an evangelistic hub in In case you are not aware, less than 20% of Africans have access to tertiary education. Less than 20%. In ence, the the next generation of policy leaders, private sector, captains of industry, politicians, lecturers, you name them, economics, scientists of your country. Currently they are in the universities. Yesterday we also defined what a jungle is. Just to keep you ab breast when we talk about a jungle we said it's a dense tangled and often dangerous mass of vegetation where survival requires constant vigilance, adaptation and courage. That is a jungle. In essence, if we are using a jungle in context as a metaphor, it means a jungle is a complex, chaotic, and a a hazardous environment where truth, safety, clarity are hard to find. So, you need a skill to navigate the jungle. If you are a gospel person or an evangelist, a spiritual individual and the universities whether you believe it or not is a jungle. The secular campuses is an intellectual jungle, a confusing month of ideas. So yesterday we said it is difficult to win the universities. Nonetheless, it's not that the universities are difficult. It's because there are a lot of bewitching ideas. Martin Luther saw this and made a statement. I greatly fear that the universities unless they teach the holy scriptures diligently and impress them on the on the student or the young students, they are wide gates to hell. Martin Luther says if you take away the Bible and an intelligent way of teaching it when you take a secular campus is a gateway to hell and that is serious. So we reviewed yesterday in my humble estimation there are much more 10 ideological barriers. I'll just mention them to keep you updated. We talk about secular humanism and how it's influencing student. We talked about relativism that truth is subjective. What's true for you may not be true for me. It's undermining the gospel. We talked about atheistic evolution. Life arose by chance through natural processes. There is no divine creator. Then we talk about materialism or consumerism which says reality is only physical and worth is found in possession and status. You are what you have and this is a bewitching power on universities. So students measure themsel in the abundance of what they have. Whilst the Bible says a man's worth is not in the abundance of his possession. All these ideologies, radical feminism at its core, godless radical feminism says that all biblical teachings, all family values, all gender and uh authority extinction and role extinction, they are inherently oppressive and patriotical. So university student who believe in this they dismantle the Bible's thought about family about gender if you so it's it's the bewitching platform for lesbianism homosexuality transgenderism and it bewitting influence and we are to minister in this universities we don't know what to do with these ideologies you talk about masses or no masses its implication we talk about The new age spirituality all part leads to God. So there is no uniqueness in what you are teaching or saying everybody will pass away and get to God. And there is a lot of confusion. We talked about yesterday hiddenism. Pleasure is the highest goal. It is the foundation for soft life. So when you hear the girl say I want a softer life. I want a softer life. I don't want to serve. I just want to suffer life. It is based on hiddenism. Pleasure is the highest good. So the philosophy says life's ultimate purpose is to maximize personal enjoyment and minimize pain. So when the Bible is talking about carry your cross, hedonism is in the universities saying forget the Bible, follow this ideological beliefs. We talk about environmental pantheism. It elevates nature itself. This thing is God. The wood is God. The tree is God. Everything is God. Environmental pantheism. It elevates creation above or equal to the creator. And then we ended yesterday with radical individualism. The self is the highest authority. You are your God. My truth is the truth. My right is the right. My identity all these. So we said in light of all these how do we reach the campuses? So yesterday I profer two strategies. Today I'm going to do the last eight. I said we need converted and revived nuclos. Ellen White gave a platform. Then for us to win the campuses we need to have effective discipling strategy. So today we will do the last eight and I pray that God will speak to all of us. Let's bow our heads as we pray. Father in heaven we pray in the name of Jesus you give us clarity and understanding that we can learn student pastors lecturers elders professionals and people working with young people on centers of learning. We pray that you use this basic tools and instruments to teach us the practicality of taking the everlasting gospel to the ends of the earth. We are called to share this message. Use us. We are charged and we are commissioned. May your spirit minister in Jesus's name. Amen. So three strategies or the first two you cannot win a campus if you don't have a converted and a revive nuclo this evening I'm going to take my time to speak so that you understand it's not a sermon number two you need an effective discipling strategy if you are joining us today go and look for yesterday's session The third strategy is the wild denses module. The wild denses module. And I'm going to break it down. The wild dances are a group of Christian believers. They were in the schools. They did something amazing about campus ministry and how to win the campuses. Ellen White captured it in couple of her books including a whole chapter in the great controversy about the wild dances. Now it says the wildians entered the schools of the world as student. They made no pretensions. Apparently they paid no attention to anyone but they lived out what they believe. Take note. Let me start. The wild dancers entered the schools, the tertiary schools, the public campuses of the world as student. They made no pretensions. Apparently, they paid no attention to anyone, but they lived out what they believe. They never sacrificed principle. And their principle soon became known. This was different from anything the other student had seen. And they began to ask themselves, "What does this all mean? Why cannot these men be induced to swerve from their principle?" While they were considering this, they heard them praying in their rooms, not to the Virgin Mary, but to the Savior whom they address as the only mediator between God and man. And the worldly students were encouraged to make inquiries. And as the simple story of the truth as it is in Jesus was told, their minds grasped it. This is from selected messages book two page 231 to 235. In this three or four paragraphs I want to use their module has about 15 things in this simple module. So take note number one what does the world densest module contain? The first thing is it contains authenticity. Before we can win the campus, be it our pastors, our elders, our campus ministry directors, our student need to understand the place of authenticity. They said they made no room for duplicity, no hypocrisy. There was no pretense among the wild dances. They were living their faith. Unlike our fellowships, our campus churches where our students we believe in this, we do this, not the wild denses. They were authentic in the universities for you to have the moral high ground to be able to minister, influence, impact, and leverage the campus for Jesus. We need a generation of student, pastors, professionals and campus fellowship that is authentic. The wild dances were authentic. Number two, the wild dances they were focused. Ellen White says apparently they paid no attention to anyone. They were focus focused on mission, focused on their studies. They were not involved in stupidity. In the universities you find a lot of student young people involved in all kind of wild things. Not the wild dances. They were not paying attention to anyone. They were there to study. They were there to do evangelism. They were not involved in needless things that distracts them. If we ever want the campuses, the jungles to be dismantled, we do not just need an authentic ministry on campus. We need a focus ministry. The wild denses, they were not just focused, they upheld faith. So for a campus church to be able to dismantle the jungles of intellectualism, what we need to do is we need to leave what we preach. The B Ellen White says selected messages book 2 page 231 22235 says but they lift out what they believe. The wild dances are not just preachers teachers. They don't say one thing and do the other. They upheld faith. The one the wild says one thing that make them stood out. The fourth one is they had a fellowship that was not compromising. They said Ellen White said they never sacrifice principle. Unlike our student on the campuses, we said we keep the Sabbath. But when it is time for the Sabbath to be seen indeed being kept, pastors are unsure, parents are unsure, young people are unsure. How can we win the campuses, the wild dances, they were never willing to compromise their faith? They never sacrifice principle. It reminds me of Ellen White statement. The greatest want of the world is the want of men. Men who will not be bought or sold. Men who when they imoso are true and honest. Men whose conscience is as true to duty as the needle to the pole. Men who will stand for the r though the heavens fall. They will never compromise. Never compromise their faith. And it is a philosophy. I'm saying if we want to break down the jungles of the campus, we need an authentic campus ministry. We need a focused campus ministry. We need a campus ministry that upholds the faith. We need a campus ministries that is uncompromising. It cannot be bought. It cannot be sold. Why are you not doing this? I am a 7th day Adventist. And you say it with class without apology. The wild dances. The fifth thing that made them stand out as a module. The one says they are fellowship was contagious not like our fellowships that are dead and still nothing moves people when they come. Ellen White says and their principles soon became known not only by preaching the way they live the way they carried themselves. Everybody started asking these people are different why do they do that? Ladies and gentlemen, you go to the universities today, there is no difference between the 7th day Adventist fellowship and the other fellowship. But for the day of worship, nobody even knows what we stand for. The wild dances their fellowship was contagious. You get in contact with them, you are going to be you are going to be affected by the flu. The flu of their lifestyle, the flu of their belief system. The sixth thing about the wild dances module is they were different. Ellen White says this was different from anything the other student had seen. So the wildes are module was not just authentic. It was not just focus. It was not just something that upheld faith. It was not just uncompromising. It was different western in the universities in Kenya. How different are the 7th day Adventist fellowships? Please don't tell me about the Sabbath. There are a lot of churches these days keeping the Sabbath. In case you do not know, we cannot dismantle the jungles of the universities. Young people have no place for foolishness. Hear me. If we want to do evangelism on the campus, we must be thoughtful. We must be deliberate. We must be intentional. And we need to be different. There must be a niche a niche advantage for us. We can't just be like the rest of the fellowships on campus who will take us serious. One of the reason we are not able to slump, dismantle and break down the shackles of the enemy on the campuses is that there is nothing unique and different about us. The wild denses they were not just that they were outstanding. They said this was different from anything the other student had seen. So aside being different, they were primos in Paris the best among equals the wildes. The wild dances as a module if their fellowship or their the student when you encounter them their fellowship is introspectionbased. I read a quote and they began to ask themselves what does this all mean? The way they live the way they do their things other worldly student not only Christian worldly student were asking ah what does this mean? What does why don't they do this? When you encounter the wild denses, you need to enter into a mode. The mode is called introspection. The wild denses, the wild dances were very unique. They were true to principle. How do I know? Ellen White said the other students were asking why cannot this men be induced to swerve from their principal. When you befriend a wild densest young girl and you ask her, can we have sex? She says no I don't have sex I'm a Christian I wait till after marriage not this foolishness that is we see happening everything it's about pelvic exercise and pelvic activity they were true to principle would you write a Sabbath exam no the fourth commandment prohibits me from writing the Sabbath would you take just some unclean food he says no my body is a temple of the Lord won't you just wear a wristband he says no I don't do any form of jewelry and and unapologetic about it. Today we are not even sure. Is bracelet right? Is earring right? Is nose ring right? Everybody is confused. No, not the wild dances. Some things which used to be very clear today they are clear and a generation of young people are growing very confused and we don't even understand why are they checking out of the church. We are inconsistent. We are never true to principle. And where did they learn it from? We said we don't buy on Sabbath. But the children started growing. They knew their parent always buy on Sabbath with with impunity and disregard. Yet we want them to grow and we want them to keep the Sabbath and love the Lord. In your dreams, not the wild dances. And to our students and professionals, be true to principle. The wildes were very unique. Look, their campus ministry was prayerdriven whilst they were inquiring. Why are these people different? Ellen White says they heard them praying in their rooms. They heard them praying in their rooms. So it's not a fellowship that is just intellectually stimulating. It is a prayerbased fellowship. For us to be able to have a camp that is able to achieve God's agenda in this last days, it must be prayerdriven. Men and women who understand the place of prayer, the power of prayer. They understand the role of prayer in hastening God's way. When they pray, miracles happen. When was the last time you saw a divine manifestation of God's power, God's authority in your church, in your fellowship? No, their fellowship was prayerdriven. People could ask why listen, we can't make any impact on the campus. Nobody takes us serious. There is nothing unique about us. That's why we keep baptizing our own children. Where are the atheist? Where are the agnostics? Where are all those who believe this 10 barriers we discuss? Where are the massacists? Where are those who are listen you the wild dances they were countercultural and then why says while everybody in those days in the dark ages they were praying to Virgin Mary the wild dances were he had praying but guess what they were not praying to Virgin Mary everybody will pray to Virgin Mary not the wild dances and that was the present truth The Ellen White says they heard them praying in their rooms not to the Virgin Mary but to the savior. Their fellowship was counterultural. What was the prevailing culture of the day? They were their fidelity was to the Bible. The wildes the wildes take time and read the desire the great controversy a whole chapter. The wildes fellowship was present truth centered. Ellen White said they were heard praying in their rooms to the Savior whom they addressed as the only mediator between God and man. While everybody felt Mary was the mediator between God and the and the living being, the world didn't say no. Everybody on campus can say they pray through Virgin Mary. We in light of the Bible we believe there is only one mediator. They are fellowship was even discussing in context the investigative judgment and the sanctuary service because there was a mediator between God and men. The wilders the wilders they were not village guys they were not dirty shabby when you ask them to come and sing they don't even know them. They can't even brush their teeth. Sometime you go to the universities the boys and girls cannot even brush their teeth well. You look at them and you see very unkempt. The wild is watch very carefully. They were classy and they were attractive. How do I know? They said the worldly students take note. The worldly, you know who are the worldly students on campus? The worldly students were encouraged to make inquiries about the wild dances. worldly student even Christians of other denomination cannot even ask about us not the wild dances the fellowship was classy I'll be talking about it you see some of our fellowships it's like there is no organization no thinking goes through our our meetings are incoordinated very clumsy thoughtless listen in this day and sometimes even some local churches I ask God why are they even having money to go online because they are going online is against the gospel itself because any serious person who sees the nonsense happening you you you online means you are you are doing TV production you can't even coordinate your thought you see preachers and speakers and musician like clowns making a shame of our god yet they are online you looking at me like Let me say it one more time. Being spiritual doesn't mean you should be stupid. We go to evangelistic meeting. PA systems are not good. Then they said it's because we are going to break the Sabbath. So Satan is here. Shut up. Get some Kenya shillings and get some good PA system. What kind of madness is this? Nobody takes us serious. Then we are praying in the name of Jesus we bind the devil. We devil the devil is in your pocket. Go and buy a PA system and the whole place foolishness promax not the wildes for worldly student to come and ask guys what are you up to? Let me not spend too much time. The world as they were missiondriven for the sake of time aside being missiondriven they their fellowship was Christ centered. They said as the simple story of truth as it is in Jesus was told their minds crappy. Their fellowship was Christ centered. All the 28 fundamental beliefs every one of them is anchored on Jesus. Yet some people want to describe the Adventism as if it's a legalistic religion. And the fact is that because we are not studied enough, we allow some of this misleading narratives to stand. The wild denses everything they do was Christ centered. The wild dances their fellowship was simple. As the simple story of the truth as it is in Jesus was told, their minds grab it. And another thing about them is they are intellectually appealing. When the wild explain why they believe what they believe, if you are a genius, you are a smart individual, you have no reason but to admire them. This was the model and LM Y documented it. If I were to have time, I would tell you even how they were able to fund what they do. Perhaps let me just mention it about the wildes. Maybe our pastors and elders and church administrators can take a queue. Every minister, every minister possess a knowledge of some trade or profession. Take note about the wildes. And the missionaries prosecuted their work under cover of secular calling. So the pastors within the wildest movement they had secular job and that is the way they used to do their ministry. They passed through great cities and penetrated to distant land. Everywhere they scattered the precious seed. Churches sprang up in their path. The wild densest missionaries went out two by two as Jesus sent forth the disciples. With each young man was usually associated a man of age and experience. The the guys this was the model they use. What do we see today? No. Do you want to change the campus? One, have a converted and a revived nucleus. Two, deploy effective discipline strategy. And three, embrace in its entirety the wild densis module. And I've given 17 frameworks under the wildest module alone. In fact, this module alone, if I want to break it down, it can take me 30 days. Strategy number four, the fellowship of the churches must develop the early churches model. I call it the PPH module. It deals with private, public and hostbased ministry. The PPH and I'm going to use a framework in the book of act. Now when you study the book of act, you see let's go quickly. They use what I call back to the basic module. It's a New Testament framework. Act 1:8, witnesses to me in Jerusalem, our scripture text. Act 2:44, they received his word and they were baptized. Act 3:1, preaching in Solomon's porch, public campaign. Act 4:33, with great power the apostles gave witness, public evangelism. Act 5:28, fill Jerusalem with your doctrine. Acts 7, Steven's preaching and he was stoned. Act 8 vers4 scattered scattered when everywhere they were preaching. Act 9:20 he preached the Christ. Act 10:4 while Peter was still speaking this word. Act 13 they were preaching in Cyprus. So the first module that gave birth to the church in the New Testament to grow it was a public approach. Now there is a personal evangelism version. So on campus, you can't just do one module. It must be the PPH model, the private, the public, and the hostbased evangelism. In in in the book of Acts chapter 3, Peter and John with the lame with the lame man. It was private. Act chapter 8, Simeon the sorcerer was confronted. It was private. Act chapter 8, Philip and the Ethiopian Enoch, the first non-Jew to get baptized. It was a private ministry. Act chapter 9, Ananas and Saul. It was a private meeting. Cornelius in Act chapter 10 when Peter was sent to him in his home. Acts chapter 11, Barnabas and Paul that disciplehip was private. Act 16 Lydia and and and the Philippian jailer it was private. Acts chapter 17, Jason, it was private. Act chapter 18, Priscilia, Aquilia and Apollos, it was private. So there was a public version. There was a private ministry and then there is what I call the home or the hostbased evangelism. Act 2:46 they were breaking bread from house to house the house to house on campus it is host to host. Acts 5:42 and in every house Acts 8:3 Entering every house Act 9:39 they brought him to the upper room it was in a home act 10:2 30 they fear God with all his household act 11:12 Cornelius house Act 12:12 house of many Acts 16:15 Lydia's house Act 17 they turn the world upside now and they did that first through Jason's house. Act 18:7 Justin's house next to the synagogue prisoner and Aquila's home trained Apollos. So here is the point. For the campuses to survive, we need a multifaceted module. There must be a public module. There must be a private module, a personal module, and there must be a home or host to host module. We cannot deploy just one. Take note. Those of you are professionals who are student leaders. See, evangelism is a spiritual exercise. There is a science of it and there is spirituality of it. The foundation, the Bible and the spirit of prophecy. Then you can use data to drive it. Now take example Acts 20:20. how I Paul kept back nothing that was helpful but proclaimed it to you and taught you how publicly and also how from house to house. So this was what grew the church. So in that diagram you'll see there were public evangelism centered on the word. There were house to house base or host to hostel base mod small group centered on the word and the people can see Christ in the disciple personal witnessing centered on the word. This was the new testament model they used to deploy. Now what was the outcome when they used the PPH module in Act 1 verse 15? 120 disciples. In Act 2:41, 3,000 new converts. In Acts 4:4, we saw 5,000 men were baptized. In Acts 6:1-7, more and more were baptized. In Acts 9:1, they were increasing in number. By chapter 16, they grew in number. And by the time they got to act 21, they were planting churches and many thousands. They could not count them anymore. They moved from 120 to 3,000 to 5,000 to more and more. And they grew in numbers and there was church planting by Act 21. There were many thousands. The Bible said this was what gave birth to the growth of the church. Now hear me. Last the second day I gave you a quote in Act 19. I don't have time. Let me let let me glean it and let's let's let's get the principle. In Acts 19, you recall I told you that or the Bible taught us that when Paul was preaching and there was hostility against the gospel, he formed a movement and he went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months reasoning and persuading concerning the things of the kingdom of God. But when some were hardened, and they did not believe, he they spoke evil, but spoke evil of the way before the multitude. They were they were embarrassing Paul. He departed from them and withdrew the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannous. We talk about this. And he this continued for two years so that all who dwelt in Asia, they hear the word of the Lord, both Jews and the Greeks. So what was the secret that led to a gospel explosion? The jungles of Korean, the jungles all the the Asia Minor was collapsing to the gospel. How did they do it? It was the same module. There was there was evangelism plus campus ministry. So city campaign plus campus campaign. What was the result? Explosion. Because the Bible says because of this strategy, almost all verse 10. And this continued for 2 years. And all who dwelt in Asia, they heard the word of the Lord. Both Jews and Greeks. How did Paul do it? It was a combination of the PPH. There was a public campaign, public outreach, personal outreach, house to house in context to campus, host campaigns that brought the result. I'm talking about how do we evade the intellectual jungle. We will turn the secular campuses into spiritual launch path. One, converted and revived nucleus. Two, effective discipling strategy. three while dances model and the early churches module the PPH model I've just discussed it strategy number five is what I call campus community impact and relevance see you cannot just be on campus and be saved we are SDS we keep the we we preach the everlasting everlasting message we keep the Sabbath no it's it's not wise so what ought we to do and then Wise says Christ method alone will give true success in reaching the people. The savior mingled with men as one who desired their goal. He showed his sympathy for them, ministered to the needs and warned their confidence. Then he ba them follow me. So point number one, we must minister to the needs of the institutions we are ministering at. So we need to learn what I call I have a presentation titled profiling and understanding the PS of the campus. So you go to University of Nairobi. How do we know what are the needs in that school? We don't just go and then we begin sorry we begin to say we are bringing a preacher from North America and they are coming to preach day number one the word. Day number two, why so much suffering? Day number three, Jesus. Day number four, law and grace. No, that's madness. You don't do that in the university. No, we can't do that. We need to profile the campus. So, data is needed. What are the needs of the campus without meeting the social needs in the universities? We will be irrelevant for spirituality to work. Jesus first ministered to social needs. Example, when I was a campus ministry director Saturday, I'll give you a mission report. I I look at University of Ghana, a new vice chancellor was born together with the campus ministry directorate, Frank Bachce, uh Elder Abio and the rest of them and then the pastor at that time, pastor Elum on campus. And they noticed that the vice chancellor said we want to green. We want to have a green campus environment. Wow. It was a policy direction. So the vice chancellor strategic document. We analyze it and saw a certain area that can make Adventism popular. So we pick it up and we decided to plant 5,000 trees in support of the vice chancellor's initiative of a green environment. My goodness. My goodness. It caught up with him. Watch. You can see it on your screen. Some of those there today, they are doctors, PhD holders. This was about 2018, 2017. It's much more than a community service. Then whilst we were planting in the picture that is the vice chancellor with a cave he spent 5 hours planting trees with the SD students. So when issues of Sabbath exam come you have we have we are supporting the V and immediately it is that I will share with you on Sabbath the university newsporter reported it the university radio reported it then the general conference reported on it what we did was so on a campus look where are you it's not just preaching there should be intentionality so Adventist because of the health message we should create a niche where we are able to administer when they mention this area of social intervention SDS must be mentioned why we know the pulse of the campus we know the needs of the campus then we can minister to them I don't want to spend so much time on it so it's not just preaching the mark of the beast and all these kind of no you do campus community impact and relevant so anytime an issue happen they say oh for this ones look for the seventh day adventist or speak to the SD people in this area. This is their niche area. They are interested in cleanliness. They are interested in health. They are interested in this. We need to be relevant to the campus. Then we can be able to tell campus followers. Strategy number six. We cannot keep preaching without leaving and upholding the faith. It's a module. Before the universities will take us right, they need to know we are living the gospel. How do I know? There should be a correlation between the message and the messenger. They must correspond. Example, go to the book of Genesis 7:1. And I'm going to ask you a question. Then the Lord said to Noah, "Come into the ark, you and all your household, because I have seen that you are righteous before me in this generation." How was Noah described? He was described as a come on talk to me. He was described as a a righteous man. Go to the book of first Peter chapter 2:7. And did not spare the ancient well, but saved Noah, one of the eight people, a preacher of all. Come on, talk to me. A preacher of all. In Genesis chapter 7, how was Peter Noah described? A righteous man. In Peter, how was he described? a preacher of all righteousness. In other words, Noah preaches what he lift. Period. Do you understand? Come on, talk to me. Do you understand? Romans chapter 2:22, it says, "You who say, do not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You appall idols. Do you rob temples? Take note. You preach, don't commit adultery. For the campuses to take us serious, we must not ourselves commit adultery. Now we say worshiping idols are bad. Paul is asking, do you go, in fact, he's quoting from the book Isaiah. Do you go to the idol temple and steal or rob the temples? You who make boast in the law, do you dishonor God through the breaking of the law? For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. As it is written, the fifth or the sixth strategy. If you will take hostage of the campuses, we need to learn how to live what we preach. Amen. Come on. Amen. Say it one more time. Amen. Amen. We need to live what we preach because Noah was a righteous man and he was a preacher of all righteousness. I wish I had time. Ellen White made a startling statement. Why must we go to the campuses in support of living what we preach? Ellen White says why must our student be on campus? They can keep the living principles of the truth and observe the Sabbath. Yet they will have an opportunity to work for the master by dropping seeds of truth in mind and heart. This work must be done and it will be done by those who are led and those who are taught of God. Do we want to evade the jungles? Number one, converted and revived nuclo. Number two, we need effective discipling strategy. Number three, we must embrace holistically the wild denses model. Number four, we need to deploy the early churches model, the PPH model. Number five, we need to have a campus community impact relevant strategy. Number five, number six, we need to live and uphold our faith. And the seventh one is a life of excellence. Daniel 1:20. In every matter of wisdom and understanding about which the king questioned them, he found them 10 times better than all the magicians and enchanters in his whole kingdom. Then his this Daniel distinguished himself above the governors and setups because an excellent spirit was in him and the king gave thought to setting him over the whole realm. You can't be a 7-day Adventist and you are not excellent. We may have weaknesses and shortfalls but one of the strategies when I was the campus ministry director what we told the student is this some of you your spiritual gift is to get first class that's your spiritual gift we don't want you to do anything on campus all we want you to do is to get the best GPA so what we want to make a statement when it is graduation and those who are taking the the the best honors immediately they mention If there are 30 Adventists must sweep more than half and then when you are being interviewed how what was the secret of your success? I thank God for the grace. I thank my teachers and the rest of this and I thank my faith. I I am a 7th day Adventist Christian and one of the key principle is whatever my hand finds to do it with all that is a that is a crusade. It is a crusade. But if you are the last in class, [Music] every day you are spiritual, every day you are in the spirit and you are praying, when the great come, you are first from behind. No. What the Bible says, Daniel was found to be 10 times better. And what did the king think? The king gave for thought to setting him over the whole realm. Why? He was excellent in the universities. One thing that must describe the advent I miss those days when Dr. Pip used to used to teach this. He says spiritual excellence and academic excellence. You must be brilliant yet you love the Lord. You are godly yet you are shack in class. You may not get all A's all the time, but you master your course. You know your stuff. That is Adventism 101. So somebody who says, "I'm an agnostic. I don't believe in God. I am an atheist. I don't believe in God." And then you are you are just they can't even understand basic concept of of algorithm and then they need to come to you to teach them. Then you have an advant even bad things and get away with it. But if you're an idiot in class, you are stupid. Your head is dumb. And then you are also coming to say why are you not coming to class? I'm going to church. H even the lecturer is angry. Why are you going to church? You a dummy. Your head is blocked and you are going to church. I pray in the name of Jesus that God will grant our students intelligence so that they will excel. Somebody should say an amen. Why must we excel? Look, I don't have time. The whole of creation was an act of excellence. Day one, day two, day three, I don't have time to on the screen, you can see it. Every day, creation was an act of excellence. Then if you watch, so when God ended his work, what did he say? Genesis 1:30. And God saw everything that he did, and behold, it was what? Very good. Excellent. So in other words, in our DNA is excellence. So we are prone to want to do things excellently. It include the way you brush your teeth, the way you smell. Some people finish eating and fish is smelling in their mouth and then you are so go and bath. You must be excellent. Then our redemption is a product of excellence. Do you know you can't sacrifice any animal for the sacrifice? You know that's The the sacrifice in the new old testament was a foreshadow. Go to the book of Micah Malachi 1:8. It says when you offer blind animals for sacrifice. Is that not wrong? When you sacrifice lame diseased animals, is that not wrong? Try offering to your governor. Give it to R. Will he be pleased with you? Will he accept you? Says the Lord Almighty. God says if your president cannot take it don't bring it to me. I went to a campus one day and the students were doing I said no way the flyer they did mediocre we rejected like those of you working with the student when it is time for you can't come and sing and there is no harmony h you are singing and I'm having headache I will sack you to sit down you don't come here to come and practice you practice in the room people must know that when you enter an SDA church everything those guys are doing they are serious they are not experimenting. You see in this day and age nobody has time for foolishness. So if you want to do church we need to do church well. So from day one I kept telling you if you know you come here you not sing well sit down. Why God says if R was coming here is this the way you are going to sing? If no don't bring it to me. It must be excellent. I wish I had time. Deuteronomy 15:21. And if it have any blemish as if it be lame or blind, any ill blemish whatsoever, thou shall not sacrifice it unto Jehovah thy God. God says, I don't take blemish sacrifice. Leviticus 25 22:2. And you must not accept such animals from the hand of a foreigner and offer them as food of of your God. They will not be accepted on your behalf because they are deformed and they are diseased. And later Paul says Romans 12, I appeal to you therefore by the mercies of God to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Therefore, you shall be perfect just as your holy father is perfect. So on campus for anybody to listen to us even before they think of us our packaging we are a church with good message bad packaging even nobody has listen no and listen to what Ellen White says the cities are where the universities are so whenever you read the spirit of prophecy is talking about principles on city evangelism they are applicable to the campus so here leny testimony for the churches volume 9 page 109 I'm racing against time in the cities of today where there is so much to attract and please the people and please the people can be interested by no ordinary effort ministers of God's appointment will find it necessary to put forth extraordinary effort in order to arrest the attention of the multitudes. In other words, not every pastor should preach on campus based on Ellen White. Please, you can't your You see, if your concord, your grammar, your he and she, they can't correlate. Sit down. Because Ellen White says in the cities of today where there is so much if your PA system cannot work well sit down. Stop worrying everybody's ear if you're live streaming sit down. People have no time in the universities and in the cities. And you see when you say it people say this preacher is so arrogant. That is my middle name. I'm okay because I am quoting the Bible and the spirit of prophecy. Ellen White says in the cities of today where there is so much to attract and please the people can be interested by no ordinary effort in other words no ordinary singing in other words no ordinary sermon in other words no ordinary Bible study in other words no ordinary decoration in other words no ordinary live streaming ministers of God's ointment will find it necessary. Ellen White say it is a necessity for a pastor, a preacher, church members to put forth extraordinary effort in order to arrest the attention of the multitudes. Then she says, and I quote, "And when they succeed in bringing together a large number of people, they must bear messages of a character so out of the usual order that the people will be aroused and the people will be warned." Testimony to the churches volume 9 page 109. So don't tell me you are singing your palm wine song on campus and he say you know what people Babylon Babylon and then your music cannot correlate sit down and young people must be told right from the campus so there must be orientation the campus acceptance is a jungle there is a lot of competition a lot of barriers so you can't make the work super difficult pain. God demand the highest standard on campus. Ellen White says they must make use of every means that can possibly be devised for causing the truth to stand out clearly and distinctly. The testing message for this time is to be born so plainly and decidedly as to startle the hearers and lead them to desire to study the scriptures. I recall when I was on campus, the posters on your screen were designed by a medical doctor eight years ago. They are nicer than posters in 2025. I want the team to please capture it. His name Josiah. He's a doctor. He was a student. So we are going to have a TLT beautiful design and when you are sharing it on your WhatsApp status but some of the posters an angel from your village is flying and another one where no way no way you cannot if you are a university student your social media design and not top class look for $50 and engage a professional. If that is clear, somebody should scream and say an amen. Amen. It must be excellent. When we want to organize a Bible lecture series on the campus sometimes then we will go we are doing it in the universities. It's not just a crusade. So instead of doing in in the open air and when it is raining then we are hiding. Lord, please hold this wind of the rain. One pastor was saying that he was praying. He said, "If I'm a man of God, let the wind stop and the whole tent fell on him." Bro, false prophet has arisen among us. You need clean auditoriums. Please uh uh uh communication capture that. It it must be clean. Then the screens are decent. It must be planned because the spirit of prophecy says people have no time in the cities. I wish I could say more but in this look I don't have time in effort made in large cities one half of the labor is lost. We need the message we need the master. We need the messenger. We need the masses. We need the method and we need the means. Tomorrow I'm going to talk about money. Campus ministry is not cheap. City crusade or evangelism is not cheap. It needs pocket people on Sabbath. I am coming after new life. You guys with the money must release it for the campuses. What do you mean? You have the money and you What do you mean? I mean, what do you mean? It is not cheap. Tell somebody, "We shall do it." No. Come on. That's a weak one. Have you eaten chapati? Tell somebody, "We shall do it." We shall do it. That's a good one. Say it one more time. We shall do it. A new generation of Adventists must emerge who will say if it must be done, it must be done well. Without this, the campuses are gone. The eighth strategy for the sake of time I will take a little bit of your time to wrap this up. Ellen White talked about adopting medical missionary. Let me give a disclaimer. is not your charcoal and clay. Medical missionary is not your charcoal and clay. Let me say it one more time. Medical missionary is not charcoal and pepper and clay mixed together as if you are a herbalist. That is not medical missionary. Listen Daniel 1:8. But Daniel resolved not to defile himself with the royal food and wine. and he asked the chief official for permission not to defile himself this way. So I'm saying one way to break the tangles on campus is medical missionary students get sick and the rest of it we need to have a superior strategy. What did Elen Wise say? He says medical missionary is the opening doors for evangelism. Let me give you some quotes. One, evangelism, page 513. Nothing will open doors for the truth like evangelistic medical missionary. Take note, it's not just medical missionary. She qualifies it evangelistic medical missionary. Don't deceive us. She says evangelistic medical missionary word. This will find access to hearts and minds and will be the means of converting many to the truth. Doors that has been closed to him who merely preaches the gospel will be open to the intelligent medical missionary. Ellen White describes it's not your charcoal and clay. She says the medical missionary that works is the intelligent medical missionary. It's not your shrine version of mixing concussion. No, it must be done intelligently. God reaches heart through the relief of physical suffering. I have a lot of quotes on it. I could go on and on. But in summary, medical missionary. The ninth strategy is qualitative worship experience. Qualitative. If we want to win the campuses, our worship experience must not just be Monday you are in church, Tuesday you are in church. If you are meeting even twice, it must be qualitative. Quality attracts quantity. Now, how do I know? Listen to Ellen. Why? So, I quoted this already talking about the cities. Now, hear what she said about our prayer meetings. Christians do not always make the public worship of God of sufficient importance. They do not realize their responsibility in the matter. The prayer meeting especially is often dull, spiritless, and unattractive. I'm quoting from the book The Science of the Times, December 4th, 1884. The prayer meetings especially is often dull, spiritless and unattractive. When we do our fellowships this way, nobody will join. Then we begin to wonder why are they going to some churches they don't have the truth. Ellen White says our problem is we we our worship experiences are not qualitative in nature. Then she said, sorry, but if need be, if but it need not be, I meant to say, even where few laugh an hour of prayer, it may be made interesting and profitable. In other words, even if you are few people, make the prayer meeting interesting and profitable. The presence of Jesus is not confined to large assemblies. In other words, we are only planning about powerful sessions if crowds will gather. And then why says even if there are few people in the fellowship, the fellowship experience must be qualitative. Now she made a huge statement in testimony for the churches volume 4 page 70 and I'm going to quote three or two paragraphs. The prayer meeting should be the most interesting gatherings that are held but these are frequently poorly managed. Many attend preaching but neglect the the prayer meeting. Many people go to divine service, they don't attend Wednesday prayer meeting. What did they learn? Why say is the reason the prayer meetings are poorly managed? Here again thought is required intelligence thinking wisdom should be sought of God and plans should be laid to conduct the meeting so that they will be interesting and attractive. The people hunger for the bread of life. If they find it at prayer meeting, they will go there to receive it. I read it again. The people hunger for the bread of life. If they find it at prayer meeting, they will go there to receive it. So if we want to win the campuses, we need to have qualitative worship experience. What do I mean? Let me give some pointers. One prayer meeting must must be the most nourishing activity on campus. So people say SDS don't pray, SDS don't pray. When I hear it, my heart organize the prayer meetings thoughtfully. Thoughtfully, intelligently. Number two, thoughtful planning is essential. Number three, seek God's wisdom first. I'm just g principle from the quote. Number four, aim to make prayer meetings interesting and attractive. I recall when I used to be a church pastor, the choir will be seated at prayer meeting. Every first Wednesday of the month or every last Wednesday of the month prayer meeting it should be like a divine service and it should be prayer field. Understand the hunger of the people. So what is the need on campus? What anniversary is it? What situation is this? Pitch the prayer meeting. Posters should be designed to attract for prayer meetings. Every Wednesday I hold a prayer meeting. They design flyers every day. Every Wednesday. Nothing stops it. Give prayer meetings equal or greater priorities. Ellen White says and then she says look the prayer meeting must be done. So if you ask me how must the prayer meetings be organized? Plan for purpose not just for order. Then prepare people not just programs. Then start on time every time. Then announcement should be brief and worship must be deeply experiential. Then lead by example. Let the music lift the souls and make every meeting win souls. Anyone who walks into our prayer meeting when we are starting a prayer meeting on campus the people who are leading the song they say SCS they just sing hymn SD they just sing hymn. The organist should not be an incompetent organist. He must know his staff. When he lift the key and the musicians are singing I mean in harmony those who are singing altern. So what do we do? Uh today who is coming for Wednesday prayer meeting. I've been watching Wednesday prayer meetings. I'll go from this church in this country. This church I've been watching. Sometimes you can feel that it's only one person who is here and trying to do something so that they don't say that the church is closed. So we just do it just to fill in the blank. So you see the person and then it's like what nonsense is this? No, the local churches can do it not campus because very soon the elders and the pastors they will die. We'll bury them. to the young people, you will take over the church. So if you too you are doing Wednesday prayer meeting like that then you better die earlier before the elders. Will I be invited to this church again? I am finished. Pastor Elvis, forgive me. A demon from my village has come over me. How do we evade the intellectual jungle? Number one, we need converted and revived nuclos. Number two, we need effective discipline strategy. Number three, we need to embrace the wild densis model. Number four, we need the early churches model, the PPH model. Number five, we need to do campus community impact relevance assessment. Number six, we need to live and uphold the faith. Number seven, we need to demonstrate a life of excellence. Number eight, we need to adopt medical missionary. Number nine, we need qualitative worship experience. And the last one is embrace soul winning as a lifestyle, not a program. Now, I'll take time and do this quietly, but this is the heart of all I've attempted to say. I've been doing campus ministry technically for the past 20 something years. I've been preaching for 27 years, but I've been doing campus ministry close to 20 years now. Hear me. What is the method? Many people think campus ministry is the same method you are going to use in the cities. No, no, no, no, no. They are completely different. So, take notes. Those of you watching online, you can take screenshot. I won't give you my slide because I'll produce it as a book so you will not get it. Disclaimer. Now Ellen White made a statement and says Christ method alone gave true success in reaching the people. The savior mingled with men as one who desired their good. He showed his sympathy for them, ministered to their needs and won their confidence. Then he based them follow me. So what's the method? Number one, Christ method, simplicity, practicality and what I call authenticity. So this is the first framework for campus. It must be based on Christ method. It must be simple. It must be practical and it must be authentic. So where do we start? Please, we are not talking about public campaign. Now if you want to start a campus interaction and the campus students some of you are here and you want to win souls for Jesus three things must define it interest friendship and community. Take genuine interest in people's life. Learn their names. Notice their struggles, their joys and their stories. People listen to those who care. So point number every Adventist student must be taught how to be interested in people. When you meet somebody for the first time, when you meet them the second time, you call them by their name and they feel they are important and they are relevant. So we need to learn how to be interested in people. I don't have time. I have seven rules under it. Now then there must be friendship. Friendship is what opens the heart. You must be a real friend. Someone they can trust. Don't be fake. Be real. Not just a person. You see, sometimes we only befriend people when it is getting to crusade. We want to do we want to win them. No. From first year immediately the academic year opens. In Ghana, we when I was in charge of campus ministry, we do what we call TLT, transformational leadership training. the agenda and the strategy for the year. We'll discuss it between all the campus leaders. They will gather. I I'll give you a mission report on Sabbath. So, learn how to befriend people and then be interested in the community. That's what I said. What does the University of Nairobi need? So, as a fellowship, we have identified seven needs in the University of Nairobi and we want to help the university become a better place. Like in Psalm 122 he say pray for the peace of Jerusalem. In her peace you will find your peace. So when the universities are better our church sometimes we are parasitic in nature. I say sometimes we just want to go and harvest people. We don't add value to the place. No campus ministries show interest in the people befriend the people and the community. If I were to speaking to church leaders who say the church must take the campus and be interested in the campus be interested in having friendship with the campus from an organizational perspective and the community of the campus. So how where do you start? There are two areas sorry you start from. Many people begin doing outreach on campus by sharing their beliefs first or some say you share your experience first. Ellen White advice start by sharing your beliefs first. Danger. What happens when you share your beliefs first? It sounds like you are focusing on doctrine, you are focusing on theology, you are focusing on rules. They feel like it's a classroom, it's a debate and often people become repulsive and the risk is there is no personal connection. But when you start by sharing your beliefs first the things you have encountered your experience I meant to say you are able to win people. So instead of saying you are 7day Adventist and the rest you keep the Sabbath and the rest of it somebody's struggling on campus and you tell them I believe in the power of prayer in 2008. I was in this situation and I read a text in Psalm 103:4 and I got this result. I believe in the power of prayer. The person is easy to relate than for you to give a Bible study on speaking in tongues. So share your experience first. This is what Ellen Y says concerning that desire of ages page 3:40. As witnesses for Christ, we are to tell what we know, what we ourselves have seen and heard and felt. Take note. If we have been following Jesus step by step, we shall have something right to the point to tell concerning the way in which he has led us. This is the witness for which our Lord calls and for want of which the world is perishing. The world is not perishing because people are not explaining the mark of the beast. The world is perishing because we don't know how to tell people our personal stories and what God has done. Take note. So the campus module is it must be very personal. Now you need to be very smart when you are doing dealing with this jungle. You need to know they are very busy on campus. So you keep it simple, you keep it coincided, you use leisure periods, you use accessible technology wisely. Some people send you broadcast message to the point that you block them. Don't don't do that. You keep it irrelevant and keeping it relevant is serious. Sometimes the way we frame our project the same things you can do but we need to know how to make it relevant. So in the university campus so if you are going to be preaching on a university number one they are there for first academic pursuit. So what has the Bible said concerning the academic pursuit? Every young person on campus want to be relevant and significant in life. You need to develop a message coincides simple relevant to their needs. You also need to know that many are very worldly on the university. So what do we do? Let's join their clubs. Let's join the society, the debating club, the psychology club, the medical students club. Invite them to join yours too. And you need to do this tactfully. Engage on the issues they care about. So you are listening to the polls of this people. what are their needs and the rest of it. You are getting a feel. So if you are bringing a preacher for a week-l long revival and you want to invite non-Aventist to join, you already know what they discuss in their clubs. You know what are their fears, you know what they are their desperation. This data must be ch out to the speakers. Don't only say that the Holy Spirit will reveal to them. No, there is a data version of ministry. You also need to know that they are very smart. So if you go unprepared, you disgrace yourself. So if you are quoting a Bible verse, double check it. Yesterday or two days ago, we're in the room, we had to read a text. I asked the lady, read it again. She read it. She made some mistake. We we corrected it before we came to public. People are smart. So don't come and make needless mistake. Be well prepared. If they ask you a question you don't know, say I want to crossch checkck on this. Don't pretend to know it all and start fumbling. You don't have to know everything to minister on campus. Be respectful. If your the person you are trying to proide, make a statement that is solid sound. You admit I have not looked at it from this perspective. That was a brilliant point. I will add it to my stock of knowledge. Hoops. They see that you are authentic. Most of the time on campus preaching is unnecessary. Many Africans are highly religious already. Teaching is useful on campus than preaching. So when you want to engage them in sharing your belief, discuss. Don't lecture. When they are saying something that contradict, give what I call reasonable objection in a mild way. Affirm what is true and and the rest of it. Ellen White made a statement. She said, "Speak to them as you have opportunity upon points of doctrine on which you can agree. Don't start discussing from areas you don't agree. Dwell on the necessity of practical godliness. Give them evidence that you are a Christian. You are desiring peace and you love their souls. Let them see that you are consensious. Thus you will gain their confidence and there will be time enough for doctrines. I can get seven point out of this goal. So what is the road map? Three broad strategies. One build relationship by engaging connecting and witnessing to them. to socially engage with them, get to know them, keep the spiritual element. Even if you are going to a meeting that is for worldly activity in quotes and you are to be there because you are broliting someone, let them know you are a Christian. I recall I was on campus, I need to visit a Muslim gathering for a Muslim program. I was there. They called me. They know I am a Christian. But I didn't make it look offensive to them. Look what is the effect. I could go on. There are some effects you need to take note of. See, it's difficult. You need to put in a lot of effort. To win souls on campus is not easy. It's not cheap. You need to know your Bibles deeply. You need to learn about your friend's religion. So somebody is a charismatic Pentecostal Christian in Nairobi. So immediately the person is a charismatic Pentecostal. You need to know that there will be issues of signs and wonders, prophecy, uh miracles and the rest of it. In Kenya, you are looking at Bishop Margaret. You are looking at Prophet David. Is it O W? You know if it's the professional is it odingo oding also don and the rest of them you need to know what they are doing is it situm is is it called sittum I came to your country I sat in sitt to check some one or two staff so that we'll be able to minister you need to know if the person is a Muslim you need to know understand the broad Muslim philosophy underpinning Now you need to understand Islam in Kenya. You need to know the special areas especially the northern uh the Nairobi eastern religion. You you need to know I've done the work on it and you need to understand if you are dealing with African traditional religious person you need to know the framework. If you are dealing with what we call evangelical Christianity what are their key underpinnings? If you are dealing with an orthodox historic Christian what must you do? Some people are into philosophy. So you need to understand classical western thinkers Plato aristotel and Hume their skepticism and their imperialism and also the ideals for justice. You need to have a fair idea. Don't be an idiot who will not know your left and right yet you are trying to proite. No. When someone is deep in science and secular thought, what must you do? In simple terms that's why Ellen White says in universities we need to do a lot of teaching not preaching you need to do a lot of sacrifice look if somebody say I'm evangelical Christian you need to understand Ravi Zacharias and John Piper and their philosophical theological underpinning all this there must be training now it needs time. There are no shortcuts. You must be accommodative. Sometimes you get frustrated. Sometimes you need to leave your comfort zone. Sometimes you need to go the extra mile. So they ask a question. The question about God is God real? Is law real? Is Christianity real? All these things, the journey can be frustrating. Many times when we talk about evangelism reaching out immediately it is a program they ask how many how did a crusade go? How many people were baptized? How many this was this? No no no no no. I want to tell you this is the progress. Watch. Sometimes on campus somebody is ignorant and after working with the person for a while the person will start to hear what you are saying. From hearing the person will now move from hearing to open mind. Then from open mind somebody will be an open-minded person. No nothing else. But after working working the person will move to what I call interest. From interest the person is just interested. You work work work. Then the person will get to a place we call discovery. Somebody will want to discover. You work with the person for work work. Then the person may get to a place we call they are now struggling. Somebody may move from struggle to acceptance and somebody move from acceptance to action. All this layers they are progress. Baptism is not the definition of success on campus ministries. A bottom line I want you to take away. So if you are working with somebody who is ignorant and the person is now hearing the gospel is progress. From hearing to open mind is progress from open mind to interest is progress from interest. The person has discovered some truth is interest is is progress from discovery to struggle. Now they are battling in the valley of decision. From struggle when they accept is progress. It's not enough. after accepting they need to take an action. So don't get discouraged. You just need to know where your client or your prospect is. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish I could share some 10 ideas you can use to do campus ministries. Time will not allow me but in some as we close for tonight. I believe Ellen White keep it simple. Don't keep it too philos sophisticated. Keep it simple. How do I know? Please keep it simple. It's not complex. Ellen White says, "Present the gospel in its simplicity. Follow Christ's example and you have the reward of seeing your students one to him." What is the secret? Simplicity. Evangelism page 443. Even the great men are more easily drawn by the simplicity of the gospel than by any effort made in human power. How can we win the jungles? Simplicity. Somewhere else, sons and daughters of God, page 266, Ellen White says, "What you need is a living experience in the things of God and simplicity in presenting the love of Christ to the lost." Evangelism page 55 57 paragraph 2. Great men, learned men can be reached better how by the simplicity of a godly life than all the sharp argument that may be poured upon them. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly, the church is looking for better methods, but God is looking for better men. All we have said will be useless unless individuals have move from being fans of Jesus to becoming followers. Embound says the church is always looking for better methods. God is looking for better men. And I want to challenge you this evening wherever you are or afternoon if you're in West Africa. Let's thrive to be the better man that God can use in this last days. And I ask, is it possible? Yes or no? Yes. With all the strategies we have done, if we are not the better men and we focus only on the better method, the Holy Spirit cannot work on us. So as we think of campus and put this into practice, one thing I ask the Lord, make me a better man. Make her a better woman. Make him a better young man. Make her a better young lady. Is it possible? Yes or no? Yes. Yes, brothers. Father in heaven for tonight, it's a simple message. We need to move up and down, but this is your work. You said it will be done by those who are thought and they are led of God. Teach us through the scriptures. Teach us through the writings of Ellen White. Teach us through the data we will seek and by your grace we can do exploit in our generation. Bless New Life Church on the continent. Few churches have dedicated a whole week for campus ministries. This church is an exemplary church in their feeble struggle. Lift them up. Bless the pastors. Bless the elders. Bless the church members of this church. Bless the campuses, the student leaders, the musicians, the IT team, the organist, the graphic designers, the photographers, the videographers, those coordinating behind the scene. Everyone wants to please Jesus. We pray where our offerings and sacrifices do not meet the standard. May the Holy Spirit have mercy on us until we meet tomorrow to look at the last night session. How can we fund campus ministry? We pray that give us another privilege. Bless our online audience. Bless our church members watching from home. and bless the heart of those who are searching. Let this be our experience for we have asked in Jesus's name. Amen. 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[0.1s] How are you doing?
[3.2s] I want to tell the musicians the music
[6.6s] today
[8.5s] decent
[10.2s] and excellent.
[13.1s] Let me say it one more time.
[17.4s] Perhaps
[18.9s] it's one of the best musics I've heard
[22.5s] since Saturday.
[25.8s] The music to me they were good and they
[30.6s] were decent
[32.9s] and we want to encourage them. That is
[35.8s] not to say those who sank before
[39.8s] it was not the best
[42.7s] but every music ministers in a very
[46.1s] unique way. So God bless you
[50.9s] for this evening.
[54.5s] I will take a little of your time.
[59.6s] What we will be sharing this evening
[64.7s] is perhaps
[68.1s] the most important
[71.2s] from where I stand
[74.2s] so far.
[76.3s] So yesterday we titled it
[80.2s] invading the intellectual jungle and the
[84.9s] subheading
[87.7s] was
[89.2s] turning secular campuses
[92.9s] into spiritual lunch parts.
[97.8s] Today we will do the part two. But as I
[100.9s] always do,
[103.0s] it was Jesus himself who said,
[106.9s] "If you continue in my words, then you
[111.6s] are my disciples indeed and you shall
[115.1s] know the truth and the truth shall set
[119.0s] you free. If the son set you free, you
[124.2s] will be free indeed." Can someone say a
[127.1s] hearty amen out there?
[129.6s] That's a weak one. It's not like from
[131.9s] East Africa yet. Can someone say a
[134.1s] hearty amen out there?
[136.6s] I can manage this one. I make to you
[138.6s] four promises. Promise number one is the
[141.4s] Bible shall be the bedrock of our study.
[144.9s] And the reason is the Bible means what
[148.2s] it says and says yes what it means.
[152.9s] Promise number two, you shall be
[154.9s] enlightened irrespective of who you are.
[157.8s] Promise number three, you are going to
[159.6s] be challenged to make the most important
[162.2s] decision of your life. And then promise
[164.9s] number four, our lives, your life and
[167.7s] mine will never be the same. Our subject
[171.8s] for this hour is basically what we title
[177.6s] invading the intellectual jungle.
[181.4s] turning secular campuses into spiritual
[187.4s] lunch pads. in excent how can we convert
[192.6s] university of Nairobi or UN University
[196.3s] of is it uh no your other president
[200.8s] what's the name
[203.0s] Jumo Kenyata University uh whichever you
[207.4s] may be those of you joining from
[209.4s] different parts of the continent how do
[212.7s] we convert the university campuses into
[217.2s] an evangelistic hub in In case you are
[219.4s] not aware, less than 20% of Africans
[224.4s] have access to tertiary education. Less
[228.0s] than 20%. In ence, the the next
[232.4s] generation of policy leaders, private
[235.4s] sector, captains of industry,
[237.9s] politicians, lecturers, you name them,
[241.2s] economics, scientists of your country.
[244.9s] Currently they are in the universities.
[248.3s] Yesterday we also defined what a jungle
[251.4s] is. Just to keep you ab breast when we
[253.6s] talk about a jungle we said it's a dense
[258.4s] tangled and often dangerous mass of
[262.9s] vegetation where survival requires
[267.0s] constant vigilance, adaptation and
[271.1s] courage. That is a jungle. In essence,
[275.9s] if we are using a jungle in context
[280.3s] as a metaphor,
[282.6s] it means a jungle is a complex, chaotic,
[286.8s] and a a hazardous environment where
[290.4s] truth, safety, clarity are hard to find.
[295.0s] So, you need a skill to navigate the
[297.9s] jungle. If you are a gospel person or an
[301.6s] evangelist, a spiritual individual and
[304.6s] the universities whether you believe it
[306.8s] or not is a jungle. The secular campuses
[310.5s] is an intellectual jungle, a confusing
[313.4s] month of ideas. So yesterday we said it
[317.8s] is difficult to win the universities.
[321.1s] Nonetheless, it's not that the
[323.0s] universities are difficult. It's because
[326.2s] there are a lot of bewitching ideas.
[329.8s] Martin Luther saw this and made a
[332.9s] statement. I greatly fear that the
[336.2s] universities
[337.8s] unless they teach the holy scriptures
[341.0s] diligently and impress them on the on
[344.8s] the student or the young students, they
[347.5s] are wide gates to hell. Martin Luther
[350.7s] says if you take away the Bible and an
[353.6s] intelligent way of teaching it when you
[355.9s] take a secular campus is a gateway to
[360.4s] hell and that is serious. So we reviewed
[365.0s] yesterday in my humble estimation there
[368.2s] are much more 10 ideological barriers.
[371.9s] I'll just mention them to keep you
[373.8s] updated. We talk about secular humanism
[377.2s] and how it's influencing student. We
[379.8s] talked about relativism
[382.6s] that truth is subjective. What's true
[385.6s] for you may not be true for me. It's
[388.5s] undermining the gospel. We talked about
[392.1s] atheistic evolution. Life arose by
[396.3s] chance through natural processes. There
[399.9s] is no divine creator. Then we talk about
[403.2s] materialism
[404.7s] or consumerism
[406.6s] which says reality is only physical and
[410.1s] worth is found in possession and status.
[413.4s] You are what you have and this is a
[416.5s] bewitching power on universities. So
[419.6s] students measure themsel in the
[423.0s] abundance of what they have. Whilst the
[425.8s] Bible says a man's worth is not in the
[429.4s] abundance of his possession. All these
[432.2s] ideologies, radical feminism at its
[436.1s] core, godless radical feminism says that
[440.7s] all biblical teachings, all family
[443.4s] values, all gender and uh authority
[447.6s] extinction and role extinction, they are
[450.6s] inherently oppressive and patriotical.
[454.3s] So university student who believe in
[456.6s] this they dismantle the Bible's thought
[459.5s] about family about gender if you so it's
[463.6s] it's the bewitching platform for
[466.1s] lesbianism homosexuality
[469.1s] transgenderism and it bewitting
[471.4s] influence and we are to minister in this
[474.5s] universities we don't know what to do
[476.3s] with these ideologies you talk about
[478.8s] masses or no masses its implication we
[483.2s] talk about The new age spirituality all
[486.4s] part leads to God. So there is no
[489.3s] uniqueness in what you are teaching or
[491.7s] saying everybody will pass away and get
[494.7s] to God. And there is a lot of confusion.
[498.1s] We talked about yesterday hiddenism.
[502.2s] Pleasure is the highest goal. It is the
[505.5s] foundation for soft life. So when you
[508.4s] hear the girl say I want a softer life.
[510.9s] I want a softer life. I don't want to
[512.5s] serve. I just want to suffer life. It is
[514.7s] based on hiddenism.
[517.4s] Pleasure is the highest good. So the
[521.7s] philosophy says life's ultimate purpose
[524.9s] is to maximize personal enjoyment and
[528.7s] minimize pain.
[531.4s] So when the Bible is talking about carry
[533.2s] your cross, hedonism is in the
[535.8s] universities saying forget the Bible,
[539.0s] follow this ideological beliefs. We talk
[541.5s] about environmental pantheism.
[544.5s] It elevates nature itself. This thing is
[547.2s] God. The wood is God. The tree is God.
[550.0s] Everything is God. Environmental
[552.4s] pantheism. It elevates creation above or
[557.7s] equal to the creator. And then we ended
[560.8s] yesterday with radical individualism.
[564.2s] The self is the highest authority.
[567.8s] You are your God.
[569.8s] My truth is the truth. My right is the
[572.8s] right. My identity all these. So we said
[577.4s] in light of all these how do we reach
[580.4s] the campuses? So yesterday I profer two
[583.8s] strategies. Today I'm going to do the
[585.7s] last eight. I said we need converted and
[589.8s] revived nuclos. Ellen White gave a
[592.6s] platform. Then for us to win the
[595.4s] campuses we need to have effective
[599.7s] discipling strategy.
[602.7s] So today we will do the last eight and I
[606.5s] pray that God will speak to all of us.
[607.8s] Let's bow our heads as we pray. Father
[609.8s] in heaven we pray in the name of Jesus
[613.8s] you give us clarity
[616.2s] and understanding
[618.2s] that we can learn student pastors
[622.0s] lecturers elders
[624.7s] professionals
[626.3s] and people working with young people on
[630.1s] centers of learning. We pray that you
[633.0s] use this basic tools and instruments to
[637.2s] teach us the practicality of taking the
[640.4s] everlasting gospel to the ends of the
[644.0s] earth. We are called to share this
[646.9s] message. Use us. We are charged and we
[650.3s] are commissioned. May your spirit
[653.1s] minister in Jesus's name. Amen.
[658.5s] So three strategies or the first two you
[662.9s] cannot win a campus if you don't have a
[666.2s] converted and a revive nuclo
[670.6s] this evening I'm going to take my time
[672.6s] to speak so that you understand it's not
[676.5s] a sermon number two you need an
[680.2s] effective discipling strategy if you are
[684.1s] joining us today go and look for
[685.8s] yesterday's session
[687.4s] The third strategy is the wild denses
[691.6s] module.
[693.1s] The wild denses module. And I'm going to
[696.4s] break it down.
[699.5s] The wild dances are a group of Christian
[702.0s] believers. They were in the schools.
[704.6s] They did something amazing about campus
[707.1s] ministry and how to win the campuses.
[709.9s] Ellen White captured it in couple of her
[711.9s] books including a whole chapter in the
[714.4s] great controversy about the wild dances.
[718.0s] Now it says the wildians
[721.1s] entered the schools of the world as
[724.2s] student.
[726.1s] They made no pretensions.
[729.4s] Apparently they paid no attention to
[733.0s] anyone but they lived out what they
[737.4s] believe. Take note.
[740.0s] Let me start. The wild dancers entered
[743.4s] the schools, the tertiary schools, the
[745.8s] public campuses of the world as student.
[749.7s] They made no pretensions.
[752.9s] Apparently, they paid no attention to
[755.9s] anyone, but they lived out what they
[758.7s] believe. They never sacrificed
[762.3s] principle. And their principle soon
[765.8s] became known. This was different from
[769.7s] anything the other student had seen. And
[772.6s] they began to ask themselves, "What does
[775.4s] this all mean? Why cannot these men be
[779.4s] induced to swerve from their principle?"
[783.9s] While they were considering this, they
[786.5s] heard them praying in their rooms, not
[789.5s] to the Virgin Mary, but to the Savior
[792.6s] whom they address as the only mediator
[796.6s] between God and man. And the worldly
[800.4s] students were encouraged to make
[803.2s] inquiries. And as the simple story of
[806.6s] the truth as it is in Jesus was told,
[809.7s] their minds grasped it. This is from
[813.6s] selected messages book two page 231 to
[817.0s] 235.
[818.6s] In this three or four paragraphs I want
[823.6s] to use their module has about 15 things
[828.2s] in this simple module. So take note
[830.6s] number one what does the world densest
[832.9s] module contain? The first thing is it
[835.8s] contains authenticity.
[838.6s] Before we can win the campus, be it our
[841.3s] pastors, our elders, our campus ministry
[844.0s] directors, our student need to
[847.2s] understand the place of authenticity.
[850.6s] They said they made no room for
[853.8s] duplicity,
[855.3s] no hypocrisy.
[857.2s] There was no pretense among the wild
[859.7s] dances. They were living their faith.
[863.0s] Unlike our fellowships, our campus
[865.6s] churches where our students we believe
[868.3s] in this, we do this, not the wild
[871.3s] denses. They were authentic in the
[874.9s] universities for you to have the moral
[877.5s] high ground to be able to minister,
[880.9s] influence, impact, and leverage the
[884.1s] campus for Jesus. We need a generation
[887.1s] of student, pastors, professionals and
[891.0s] campus fellowship that is authentic. The
[894.5s] wild dances were authentic. Number two,
[896.9s] the wild dances they were focused.
[901.4s] Ellen White says apparently they paid no
[905.1s] attention to anyone. They were focus
[909.4s] focused on mission, focused on their
[911.9s] studies. They were not involved in
[914.9s] stupidity. In the universities you find
[917.8s] a lot of student young people involved
[920.4s] in all kind of wild things. Not the wild
[923.7s] dances. They were not paying attention
[927.8s] to anyone. They were there to study.
[930.6s] They were there to do evangelism. They
[933.2s] were not involved in needless things
[935.7s] that distracts them. If we ever want the
[939.0s] campuses, the jungles to be dismantled,
[942.4s] we do not just need an authentic
[945.3s] ministry on campus. We need a focus
[948.7s] ministry. The wild denses, they were not
[951.7s] just focused, they upheld faith. So for
[955.7s] a campus church to be able to dismantle
[958.6s] the jungles of intellectualism,
[961.7s] what we need to do is we need to leave
[964.9s] what we preach.
[968.3s] The B Ellen White says selected messages
[971.4s] book 2 page 231 22235 says but they lift
[975.3s] out what they believe. The wild dances
[978.5s] are not just preachers teachers. They
[981.1s] don't say one thing and do the other.
[983.9s] They upheld faith.
[987.8s] The one the wild says one thing that
[990.7s] make them stood out. The fourth one is
[992.9s] they had a fellowship that was not
[995.8s] compromising. They said Ellen White said
[998.7s] they never sacrifice principle. Unlike
[1002.2s] our student on the campuses, we said we
[1004.7s] keep the Sabbath. But when it is time
[1007.1s] for the Sabbath to be seen indeed being
[1009.8s] kept, pastors are unsure, parents are
[1012.9s] unsure, young people are unsure. How can
[1016.0s] we win the campuses, the wild dances,
[1020.2s] they were never willing to compromise
[1022.9s] their faith? They never sacrifice
[1026.7s] principle. It reminds me of Ellen White
[1029.1s] statement. The greatest want of the
[1031.0s] world is the want of men. Men who will
[1033.8s] not be bought or sold. Men who when they
[1036.2s] imoso are true and honest. Men whose
[1038.6s] conscience is as true to duty as the
[1040.8s] needle to the pole. Men who will stand
[1042.9s] for the r though the heavens fall. They
[1045.4s] will never compromise.
[1048.1s] Never compromise their faith. And it is
[1050.7s] a philosophy. I'm saying if we want to
[1053.7s] break down the jungles of the campus, we
[1056.7s] need an authentic campus ministry. We
[1059.2s] need a focused campus ministry. We need
[1061.4s] a campus ministry that upholds the
[1063.4s] faith. We need a campus ministries that
[1065.8s] is uncompromising.
[1068.0s] It cannot be bought. It cannot be sold.
[1071.2s] Why are you not doing this? I am a 7th
[1074.4s] day Adventist. And you say it with class
[1078.3s] without apology. The wild dances.
[1082.4s] The fifth thing that made them stand out
[1084.2s] as a module. The one says they are
[1087.1s] fellowship was contagious
[1090.3s] not like our fellowships that are dead
[1092.5s] and still
[1094.6s] nothing moves people when they come.
[1096.5s] Ellen White says and their principles
[1099.1s] soon became known
[1101.6s] not only by preaching the way they live
[1105.1s] the way they carried themselves.
[1106.8s] Everybody started asking these people
[1108.9s] are different why do they do that?
[1110.9s] Ladies and gentlemen, you go to the
[1112.7s] universities today, there is no
[1114.6s] difference between the 7th day Adventist
[1117.1s] fellowship and the other fellowship. But
[1119.7s] for the day of worship, nobody even
[1122.3s] knows what we stand for. The wild dances
[1125.7s] their fellowship was contagious. You get
[1128.5s] in contact with them, you are going to
[1130.6s] be you are going to be affected by the
[1132.5s] flu. The flu of their lifestyle, the flu
[1135.6s] of their belief system. The sixth thing
[1137.9s] about the wild dances module is they
[1140.4s] were different. Ellen White says this
[1144.0s] was different from anything the other
[1146.7s] student had seen. So the wildes
[1150.2s] are module was not just authentic. It
[1153.0s] was not just focus. It was not just
[1155.4s] something that upheld faith. It was not
[1157.5s] just uncompromising.
[1159.3s] It was different
[1162.9s] western
[1166.3s] in the universities in Kenya.
[1169.2s] How different are the 7th day Adventist
[1171.5s] fellowships?
[1174.4s] Please don't tell me about the Sabbath.
[1176.0s] There are a lot of churches these days
[1177.3s] keeping the Sabbath. In case you do not
[1180.0s] know,
[1182.6s] we cannot
[1184.7s] dismantle the jungles of the
[1187.2s] universities. Young people have no place
[1190.1s] for foolishness.
[1192.5s] Hear me. If we want to do evangelism on
[1196.0s] the campus, we must be thoughtful. We
[1199.2s] must be deliberate. We must be
[1201.0s] intentional. And we need to be
[1202.7s] different. There must be a niche a niche
[1206.3s] advantage for us. We can't just be like
[1209.0s] the rest of the fellowships on campus
[1211.1s] who will take us serious. One of the
[1213.7s] reason we are not able to slump,
[1216.5s] dismantle and break down the shackles of
[1219.4s] the enemy on the campuses is that there
[1221.8s] is nothing unique and different about
[1223.6s] us. The wild denses they were not just
[1227.4s] that they were outstanding. They said
[1229.8s] this was different from anything the
[1231.4s] other student had seen. So aside being
[1233.3s] different, they were primos in Paris the
[1236.2s] best among equals the wildes. The wild
[1239.6s] dances as a module if their fellowship
[1243.2s] or their the student when you encounter
[1246.7s] them their fellowship is
[1248.2s] introspectionbased.
[1250.5s] I read a quote and they began to ask
[1253.4s] themselves what does this all mean? The
[1256.1s] way they live the way they do their
[1258.4s] things other worldly student not only
[1261.3s] Christian worldly student were asking ah
[1264.0s] what does this mean? What does why don't
[1266.6s] they do this? When you encounter the
[1268.7s] wild denses, you need to enter into a
[1271.5s] mode. The mode is called introspection.
[1274.8s] The wild denses, the wild dances were
[1278.3s] very unique. They were true to
[1280.6s] principle.
[1282.6s] How do I know? Ellen White said the
[1285.0s] other students were asking why cannot
[1287.0s] this men be induced to swerve from their
[1290.9s] principal. When you befriend a wild
[1293.2s] densest young girl and you ask her, can
[1295.8s] we have sex? She says no I don't have
[1298.2s] sex I'm a Christian I wait till after
[1300.9s] marriage not this foolishness that is we
[1303.2s] see happening everything it's about
[1305.8s] pelvic exercise and pelvic activity they
[1309.4s] were true to principle would you write a
[1311.5s] Sabbath exam no the fourth commandment
[1313.8s] prohibits me from writing the Sabbath
[1315.8s] would you take just some unclean food he
[1318.2s] says no my body is a temple of the Lord
[1321.0s] won't you just wear a wristband he says
[1323.6s] no I don't do any form of jewelry and
[1326.6s] and unapologetic about it. Today we are
[1329.4s] not even sure.
[1331.3s] Is bracelet right? Is earring right? Is
[1333.9s] nose ring right? Everybody is confused.
[1336.2s] No, not the wild dances.
[1340.1s] Some things which used to be very clear
[1342.2s] today they are clear and a generation of
[1344.9s] young people are growing very confused
[1347.0s] and we don't even understand why are
[1349.1s] they checking out of the church. We are
[1351.0s] inconsistent. We are never true to
[1353.4s] principle.
[1354.9s] And where did they learn it from?
[1357.4s] We said we don't buy on Sabbath. But the
[1359.2s] children started growing. They knew
[1360.6s] their parent always buy on Sabbath with
[1362.7s] with impunity and disregard. Yet we want
[1365.7s] them to grow and we want them to keep
[1367.6s] the Sabbath and love the Lord. In your
[1369.3s] dreams,
[1373.0s] not the wild dances. And to our students
[1376.2s] and professionals,
[1378.7s] be true to principle.
[1381.6s] The wildes were very unique. Look, their
[1385.1s] campus ministry was prayerdriven
[1387.8s] whilst they were inquiring. Why are
[1389.7s] these people different? Ellen White says
[1392.1s] they heard them praying in their rooms.
[1398.2s] They heard them praying in their rooms.
[1401.3s] So it's not a fellowship that is just
[1403.0s] intellectually stimulating. It is a
[1405.4s] prayerbased fellowship. For us to be
[1408.3s] able to have a camp that is able to
[1411.8s] achieve God's agenda in this last days,
[1414.6s] it must be prayerdriven. Men and women
[1417.2s] who understand the place of prayer, the
[1419.9s] power of prayer. They understand the
[1422.2s] role of prayer in hastening God's way.
[1425.6s] When they pray, miracles happen. When
[1428.0s] was the last time you saw a divine
[1430.3s] manifestation of God's power, God's
[1433.1s] authority in your church, in your
[1435.6s] fellowship? No, their fellowship was
[1438.8s] prayerdriven. People could ask why
[1442.2s] listen, we can't make any impact on the
[1445.1s] campus. Nobody takes us serious. There
[1447.7s] is nothing unique about us.
[1451.6s] That's why we keep baptizing our own
[1453.0s] children. Where are the atheist? Where
[1456.3s] are the agnostics? Where are all those
[1458.7s] who believe this 10 barriers we discuss?
[1462.1s] Where are the massacists? Where are
[1463.8s] those who are listen
[1467.8s] you
[1470.2s] the wild dances they were
[1472.4s] countercultural
[1474.6s] and then why says while everybody in
[1477.7s] those days in the dark ages they were
[1479.8s] praying to Virgin Mary the wild dances
[1482.9s] were he had praying but guess what they
[1485.2s] were not praying to Virgin Mary
[1487.0s] everybody will pray to Virgin Mary not
[1489.7s] the wild dances and that was the present
[1492.2s] truth
[1493.6s] The Ellen White says they heard them
[1495.7s] praying in their rooms not to the Virgin
[1497.8s] Mary but to the savior. Their fellowship
[1501.3s] was counterultural. What was the
[1503.9s] prevailing culture of the day? They were
[1506.5s] their fidelity was to the Bible. The
[1509.2s] wildes
[1510.9s] the wildes take time and read the desire
[1513.6s] the great controversy a whole chapter.
[1515.9s] The wildes fellowship was present truth
[1518.8s] centered.
[1520.4s] Ellen White said they were heard praying
[1523.2s] in their rooms to the Savior whom they
[1525.8s] addressed as the only mediator between
[1529.4s] God and man. While everybody felt Mary
[1533.6s] was the mediator between God and the and
[1537.0s] the living being, the world didn't say
[1539.9s] no. Everybody on campus can say they
[1543.2s] pray through Virgin Mary. We in light of
[1546.3s] the Bible we believe there is only one
[1549.9s] mediator. They are fellowship was even
[1552.7s] discussing in context the investigative
[1555.5s] judgment and the sanctuary service
[1557.8s] because there was a mediator between God
[1560.9s] and men. The wilders
[1563.8s] the wilders
[1566.1s] they were not village guys they were not
[1568.6s] dirty shabby when you ask them to come
[1570.2s] and sing they don't even know them. They
[1571.8s] can't even brush their teeth. Sometime
[1573.1s] you go to the universities the boys and
[1574.6s] girls cannot even brush their teeth
[1575.9s] well. You look at them and you see very
[1578.6s] unkempt. The wild is watch very
[1581.2s] carefully. They were classy and they
[1583.7s] were attractive.
[1585.8s] How do I know? They said the worldly
[1588.6s] students take note. The worldly, you
[1592.2s] know who are the worldly students on
[1593.6s] campus? The worldly students were
[1596.6s] encouraged to make inquiries about the
[1600.2s] wild dances. worldly student even
[1603.5s] Christians of other denomination cannot
[1605.4s] even ask about us
[1608.2s] not the wild dances
[1611.0s] the fellowship was classy I'll be
[1612.8s] talking about it you see some of our
[1614.9s] fellowships it's like there is no
[1617.5s] organization no thinking goes through
[1620.1s] our our meetings are incoordinated
[1623.8s] very clumsy thoughtless listen in this
[1627.0s] day and sometimes even some local
[1628.7s] churches I ask God why are they even
[1631.1s] having money to go online because they
[1633.4s] are going online is against the gospel
[1635.3s] itself because any serious person who
[1637.4s] sees the nonsense happening you you you
[1640.8s] online means you are you are doing TV
[1642.6s] production you can't even coordinate
[1645.2s] your thought you see preachers and
[1647.3s] speakers and musician like clowns making
[1650.6s] a shame of our god yet they are online
[1658.4s] you looking at me like
[1662.1s] Let me say it one more time.
[1664.6s] Being spiritual doesn't mean you should
[1666.2s] be stupid.
[1668.2s] We go to evangelistic meeting. PA
[1670.7s] systems are not good.
[1675.5s] Then they said it's because we are going
[1677.0s] to break the Sabbath. So Satan is here.
[1679.0s] Shut up. Get some Kenya shillings and
[1681.8s] get some good PA system.
[1685.8s] What kind of madness is this? Nobody
[1688.3s] takes us serious. Then we are praying in
[1689.9s] the name of Jesus we bind the devil. We
[1692.0s] devil the devil is in your pocket. Go
[1694.5s] and buy a PA system
[1698.1s] and the whole place foolishness promax
[1707.1s] not the wildes
[1709.0s] for worldly student to come and ask guys
[1713.6s] what are you up to?
[1716.3s] Let me not spend too much time. The
[1717.8s] world as they were missiondriven
[1721.4s] for the sake of time aside being
[1723.1s] missiondriven they their fellowship was
[1725.4s] Christ centered. They said as the simple
[1728.1s] story of truth as it is in Jesus was
[1731.5s] told their minds crappy. Their
[1733.8s] fellowship was Christ centered. All the
[1736.0s] 28 fundamental beliefs every one of them
[1738.9s] is anchored on Jesus. Yet some people
[1741.8s] want to describe the Adventism as if
[1743.7s] it's a legalistic religion. And the fact
[1745.6s] is that because we are not studied
[1747.0s] enough, we allow some of this misleading
[1750.2s] narratives to stand. The wild denses
[1753.0s] everything they do was Christ centered.
[1755.1s] The wild dances their fellowship was
[1758.1s] simple. As the simple story of the truth
[1761.8s] as it is in Jesus was told, their minds
[1765.3s] grab it. And another thing about them is
[1768.1s] they are intellectually appealing.
[1771.7s] When the wild explain why they believe
[1774.6s] what they believe, if you are a genius,
[1777.7s] you are a smart individual, you have no
[1780.8s] reason but to admire them. This was the
[1784.2s] model and LM Y documented it. If I were
[1787.9s] to have time, I would tell you even how
[1790.4s] they were able to fund what they do.
[1793.3s] Perhaps let me just mention it about the
[1795.8s] wildes. Maybe our pastors and elders and
[1798.6s] church administrators can take a queue.
[1800.6s] Every minister, every minister possess a
[1804.4s] knowledge of some trade or profession.
[1806.7s] Take note about the wildes. And the
[1809.3s] missionaries prosecuted their work under
[1812.1s] cover of secular calling. So the pastors
[1814.9s] within the wildest movement they had
[1817.3s] secular job and that is the way they
[1819.5s] used to do their ministry. They passed
[1822.0s] through great cities and penetrated to
[1824.5s] distant land. Everywhere they scattered
[1827.0s] the precious seed. Churches sprang up in
[1829.4s] their path. The wild densest
[1831.5s] missionaries went out two by two as
[1834.6s] Jesus sent forth the disciples. With
[1836.6s] each young man was usually associated a
[1840.4s] man of age and experience. The the
[1845.2s] guys this was the model they use.
[1849.7s] What do we see today?
[1851.9s] No. Do you want to change the campus?
[1855.2s] One, have a converted and a revived
[1857.2s] nucleus. Two, deploy effective
[1861.0s] discipline strategy. And three, embrace
[1864.0s] in its entirety the wild densis module.
[1869.1s] And I've given 17 frameworks under the
[1871.5s] wildest module alone. In fact, this
[1874.0s] module alone, if I want to break it
[1875.6s] down, it can take me 30 days.
[1879.8s] Strategy number four, the fellowship of
[1882.3s] the churches must develop the early
[1884.6s] churches model. I call it the PPH
[1886.6s] module. It deals with private, public
[1891.4s] and hostbased
[1893.7s] ministry. The PPH and I'm going to use a
[1896.7s] framework in the book of act. Now when
[1899.5s] you study the book of act,
[1902.1s] you see
[1903.8s] let's go quickly.
[1906.3s] They use what I call back to the basic
[1909.0s] module. It's a New Testament framework.
[1911.7s] Act 1:8, witnesses to me in Jerusalem,
[1914.8s] our scripture text. Act 2:44, they
[1917.4s] received his word and they were
[1919.3s] baptized. Act 3:1, preaching in
[1921.9s] Solomon's porch, public campaign. Act
[1924.2s] 4:33, with great power the apostles gave
[1927.2s] witness, public evangelism. Act 5:28,
[1930.3s] fill Jerusalem with your doctrine. Acts
[1933.4s] 7, Steven's preaching and he was stoned.
[1936.2s] Act 8 vers4 scattered scattered when
[1939.5s] everywhere they were preaching. Act 9:20
[1942.3s] he preached the Christ. Act 10:4 while
[1945.4s] Peter was still speaking this word. Act
[1947.8s] 13 they were preaching in Cyprus. So the
[1950.6s] first module that gave birth to the
[1952.7s] church in the New Testament to grow it
[1955.3s] was a public approach. Now there is a
[1958.5s] personal evangelism version. So on
[1960.7s] campus, you can't just do one module. It
[1963.7s] must be the PPH model, the private, the
[1966.4s] public, and the hostbased evangelism. In
[1969.6s] in in the book of Acts chapter 3, Peter
[1971.4s] and John with the lame with the lame
[1974.2s] man. It was private. Act chapter 8,
[1977.2s] Simeon the sorcerer was confronted. It
[1979.8s] was private. Act chapter 8, Philip and
[1982.1s] the Ethiopian Enoch, the first non-Jew
[1985.1s] to get baptized. It was a private
[1987.8s] ministry. Act chapter 9, Ananas and
[1990.6s] Saul. It was a private meeting.
[1993.1s] Cornelius in Act chapter 10 when Peter
[1995.4s] was sent to him in his home. Acts
[1997.2s] chapter 11, Barnabas and Paul that
[1999.8s] disciplehip was private. Act 16 Lydia
[2003.6s] and and and the Philippian jailer it was
[2006.3s] private. Acts chapter 17, Jason, it was
[2009.6s] private. Act chapter 18, Priscilia,
[2012.2s] Aquilia and Apollos, it was private. So
[2016.3s] there was a public version. There was a
[2018.7s] private ministry and then there is what
[2021.4s] I call the home or the hostbased
[2023.6s] evangelism. Act 2:46 they were breaking
[2026.8s] bread from house to house the house to
[2029.5s] house on campus it is host to host. Acts
[2033.5s] 5:42 and in every house Acts 8:3
[2038.2s] Entering every house Act 9:39 they
[2041.7s] brought him to the upper room it was in
[2043.8s] a home act 10:2
[2046.6s] 30 they fear God with all his household
[2049.4s] act 11:12 Cornelius house Act 12:12
[2054.2s] house of many Acts 16:15 Lydia's house
[2058.6s] Act 17 they turn the world upside now
[2062.5s] and they did that first through Jason's
[2065.4s] house. Act 18:7
[2068.6s] Justin's house next to the synagogue
[2071.0s] prisoner and Aquila's home trained
[2072.9s] Apollos. So here is the point.
[2076.5s] For the campuses to survive, we need a
[2079.7s] multifaceted module. There must be a
[2082.0s] public module. There must be a private
[2084.2s] module, a personal module, and there
[2086.2s] must be a home or host to host module.
[2089.4s] We cannot deploy just one. Take note.
[2093.0s] Those of you are professionals who are
[2094.5s] student leaders.
[2096.5s] See, evangelism is a spiritual exercise.
[2100.2s] There is a science of it and there is
[2102.0s] spirituality of it. The foundation, the
[2104.7s] Bible and the spirit of prophecy. Then
[2106.6s] you can use data to drive it. Now take
[2110.6s] example Acts 20:20. how I Paul kept back
[2115.8s] nothing that was helpful but proclaimed
[2118.9s] it to you and taught you how publicly
[2123.0s] and also how from house to house.
[2128.5s] So this was what grew the church. So in
[2130.8s] that diagram you'll see there were
[2133.4s] public evangelism centered on the word.
[2136.6s] There were house to house base or host
[2139.0s] to hostel base mod small group centered
[2141.7s] on the word and the people can see
[2144.2s] Christ in the disciple personal
[2146.2s] witnessing centered on the word. This
[2148.7s] was the new testament model they used to
[2151.2s] deploy. Now what was the outcome when
[2154.7s] they used the PPH module in Act 1 verse
[2158.4s] 15?
[2159.9s] 120 disciples. In Act 2:41,
[2163.3s] 3,000 new converts. In Acts 4:4, we saw
[2167.3s] 5,000 men were baptized. In Acts 6:1-7,
[2171.0s] more and more were baptized. In Acts
[2173.7s] 9:1, they were increasing in number. By
[2176.7s] chapter 16, they grew in number. And by
[2179.4s] the time they got to act 21, they were
[2181.8s] planting churches and many thousands.
[2184.2s] They could not count them anymore. They
[2186.1s] moved from 120 to 3,000 to 5,000 to more
[2190.2s] and more. And they grew in numbers and
[2192.6s] there was church planting by Act 21.
[2195.8s] There were many thousands. The Bible
[2199.0s] said this was what gave birth to the
[2202.2s] growth of the church. Now hear me. Last
[2205.7s] the second day I gave you a quote in Act
[2208.5s] 19. I don't have time. Let me let let me
[2211.3s] glean it and let's let's let's get the
[2213.2s] principle. In Acts 19, you recall I told
[2216.2s] you that or the Bible taught us that
[2218.4s] when Paul was preaching and there was
[2220.9s] hostility against the gospel, he formed
[2223.1s] a movement and he went into the
[2225.5s] synagogue and spoke boldly for three
[2227.8s] months reasoning and persuading
[2230.4s] concerning the things of the kingdom of
[2232.1s] God. But when some were hardened, and
[2236.5s] they did not believe, he they spoke
[2239.3s] evil, but spoke evil of the way before
[2241.8s] the multitude. They were they were
[2244.1s] embarrassing Paul. He departed from them
[2247.1s] and withdrew the disciples, reasoning
[2249.8s] daily in the school of Tyrannous. We
[2252.0s] talk about this. And he this continued
[2254.2s] for two years so that all who dwelt in
[2257.4s] Asia, they hear the word of the Lord,
[2259.4s] both Jews and the Greeks. So what was
[2261.7s] the secret that led to a gospel
[2264.1s] explosion? The jungles of Korean, the
[2266.6s] jungles all the the Asia Minor was
[2270.7s] collapsing to the gospel. How did they
[2273.3s] do it? It was the same module. There was
[2276.3s] there was evangelism plus campus
[2279.5s] ministry. So city campaign plus campus
[2283.0s] campaign. What was the result?
[2285.0s] Explosion. Because the Bible says
[2288.0s] because of this strategy,
[2292.6s] almost all verse 10. And this continued
[2296.8s] for 2 years. And all who dwelt in Asia,
[2300.7s] they heard the word of the Lord. Both
[2303.2s] Jews and Greeks.
[2307.6s] How did Paul do it? It was a combination
[2311.2s] of the PPH. There was a public campaign,
[2314.4s] public outreach, personal outreach,
[2317.2s] house to house in context to campus,
[2319.9s] host campaigns that brought the result.
[2323.0s] I'm talking about how do we evade the
[2325.8s] intellectual jungle. We will turn the
[2329.2s] secular campuses into spiritual launch
[2331.9s] path.
[2333.4s] One, converted and revived nucleus. Two,
[2336.0s] effective discipling strategy. three
[2338.4s] while dances model and the early
[2340.6s] churches module the PPH model I've just
[2343.8s] discussed it strategy number five is
[2346.1s] what I call campus community impact and
[2349.2s] relevance see you cannot just be on
[2351.4s] campus and be saved we are SDS we keep
[2354.3s] the we we preach the everlasting
[2356.6s] everlasting message we keep the Sabbath
[2358.6s] no it's it's not wise so what ought we
[2362.3s] to do and then Wise says Christ method
[2365.8s] alone will give true success in reaching
[2369.4s] the people. The savior mingled with men
[2372.9s] as one who desired their goal. He showed
[2376.0s] his sympathy for them, ministered to the
[2379.4s] needs and warned their confidence. Then
[2381.9s] he ba them follow me. So point number
[2384.8s] one, we must minister to the needs of
[2387.4s] the institutions we are ministering at.
[2390.8s] So we need to learn what I call I have a
[2393.0s] presentation titled profiling and
[2395.2s] understanding the PS of the campus. So
[2399.4s] you go to University of Nairobi. How do
[2402.2s] we know what are the needs in that
[2404.2s] school? We don't just go and then we
[2407.1s] begin
[2410.1s] sorry we begin to say
[2413.3s] we are bringing a preacher from North
[2415.6s] America and they are coming to preach
[2418.2s] day number one the word. Day number two,
[2420.6s] why so much suffering? Day number three,
[2422.7s] Jesus. Day number four, law and grace.
[2425.1s] No, that's madness. You don't do that in
[2427.3s] the university. No, we can't do that. We
[2430.6s] need to profile the campus. So, data is
[2433.8s] needed. What are the needs of the campus
[2439.9s] without meeting the social needs in the
[2441.8s] universities?
[2443.4s] We will be irrelevant
[2446.6s] for spirituality
[2448.6s] to work. Jesus first ministered to
[2451.0s] social needs.
[2453.1s] Example, when I was a campus ministry
[2454.5s] director Saturday, I'll give you a
[2456.5s] mission report.
[2459.0s] I I look at University of Ghana, a new
[2462.6s] vice chancellor was born together with
[2465.1s] the campus ministry directorate, Frank
[2467.4s] Bachce, uh Elder Abio and the rest of
[2470.4s] them and then the pastor at that time,
[2472.8s] pastor Elum on campus. And they noticed
[2476.4s] that the vice chancellor said we want to
[2479.0s] green. We want to have a green campus
[2480.9s] environment. Wow. It was a policy
[2483.8s] direction. So the vice chancellor
[2486.7s] strategic document. We analyze it and
[2489.8s] saw a certain area that can make
[2492.5s] Adventism popular. So we pick it up and
[2495.3s] we decided to plant 5,000 trees in
[2497.8s] support of the vice chancellor's
[2499.8s] initiative of a green environment. My
[2502.8s] goodness.
[2504.6s] My goodness. It caught up with him.
[2507.4s] Watch. You can see it on your screen.
[2509.9s] Some of those there today, they are
[2512.8s] doctors, PhD holders. This was about
[2514.9s] 2018, 2017. It's much more than a
[2517.8s] community service. Then whilst we were
[2520.9s] planting in the picture that is the vice
[2523.8s] chancellor with a cave he spent 5 hours
[2527.0s] planting trees with the SD students.
[2530.9s] So when issues of Sabbath exam come you
[2533.5s] have we have we are supporting the V and
[2536.1s] immediately it is that I will share with
[2537.8s] you on Sabbath
[2539.7s] the university newsporter reported it
[2541.7s] the university radio reported it then
[2544.0s] the general conference reported on it
[2546.0s] what we did was so on a campus look
[2549.5s] where are you
[2551.7s] it's not just preaching
[2555.0s] there should be intentionality so
[2556.9s] Adventist because of the health message
[2559.3s] we should create a niche
[2561.6s] where we are able to administer when
[2564.9s] they mention this area of social
[2566.8s] intervention SDS must be mentioned why
[2570.2s] we know the pulse of the campus we know
[2572.6s] the needs of the campus then we can
[2574.9s] minister to them I don't want to spend
[2576.9s] so much time on it so it's not just
[2578.8s] preaching the mark of the beast and all
[2581.3s] these kind of no you do campus community
[2584.6s] impact and relevant so anytime an issue
[2587.3s] happen they say oh for this ones look
[2589.0s] for the seventh day adventist or speak
[2590.7s] to the SD people in this area. This is
[2593.2s] their niche area. They are interested in
[2595.4s] cleanliness. They are interested in
[2597.0s] health. They are interested in this. We
[2599.2s] need to be relevant to the campus. Then
[2602.3s] we can be able to tell campus followers.
[2605.1s] Strategy number six.
[2607.6s] We cannot keep preaching
[2610.1s] without leaving and upholding the faith.
[2613.4s] It's a module. Before the universities
[2615.4s] will take us right, they need to know we
[2618.8s] are living the gospel. How do I know?
[2621.9s] There should be a correlation between
[2623.5s] the message and the messenger. They must
[2626.2s] correspond. Example, go to the book of
[2629.3s] Genesis 7:1. And I'm going to ask you a
[2631.7s] question. Then the Lord said to Noah,
[2634.7s] "Come into the ark, you and all your
[2637.2s] household, because I have seen that you
[2639.4s] are righteous before me in this
[2641.4s] generation." How was Noah described? He
[2643.9s] was described as a
[2647.1s] come on talk to me. He was described as
[2649.1s] a a righteous man. Go to the book of
[2652.5s] first Peter chapter 2:7. And did not
[2655.8s] spare the ancient well, but saved Noah,
[2659.0s] one of the eight people, a preacher of
[2661.3s] all. Come on, talk to me. A preacher of
[2664.2s] all. In Genesis chapter 7, how was Peter
[2668.4s] Noah described? A righteous man. In
[2671.0s] Peter, how was he described? a preacher
[2673.7s] of all righteousness. In other words,
[2676.1s] Noah preaches what he lift. Period.
[2684.2s] Do you understand?
[2686.2s] Come on, talk to me. Do you understand?
[2691.4s] Romans chapter 2:22, it says, "You who
[2694.7s] say, do not commit adultery, do you
[2698.0s] commit adultery?
[2699.9s] You appall idols. Do you rob temples?
[2703.9s] Take note. You preach, don't commit
[2706.0s] adultery. For the campuses to take us
[2708.3s] serious, we must not ourselves commit
[2710.1s] adultery. Now we say worshiping idols
[2713.0s] are bad. Paul is asking, do you go, in
[2716.1s] fact, he's quoting from the book Isaiah.
[2718.2s] Do you go to the idol temple and steal
[2721.9s] or rob the temples? You who make boast
[2725.2s] in the law, do you dishonor God through
[2728.2s] the breaking of the law? For the name of
[2731.4s] God is blasphemed among the Gentiles
[2734.7s] because of you. As it is written, the
[2737.6s] fifth or the sixth strategy. If you will
[2740.6s] take hostage of the campuses, we need to
[2743.3s] learn how to live what we preach.
[2747.9s] Amen. Come on. Amen. Say it one more
[2751.6s] time. Amen. Amen. We need to live what
[2755.0s] we preach because Noah was a righteous
[2757.8s] man and he was a preacher of all
[2760.2s] righteousness.
[2765.3s] I wish I had time. Ellen White made a
[2767.6s] startling statement.
[2771.5s] Why must we go to the campuses
[2774.2s] in support of living what we preach?
[2776.4s] Ellen White says why must our student be
[2779.2s] on campus? They can keep the living
[2781.2s] principles of the truth and observe the
[2783.2s] Sabbath. Yet they will have an
[2784.8s] opportunity to work for the master by
[2787.1s] dropping seeds of truth in mind and
[2789.8s] heart. This work must be done and it
[2792.8s] will be done by those who are led and
[2795.8s] those who are taught of God. Do we want
[2797.7s] to evade the jungles? Number one,
[2800.1s] converted and revived nuclo. Number two,
[2803.0s] we need effective discipling strategy.
[2805.6s] Number three, we must embrace
[2807.4s] holistically the wild denses model.
[2810.2s] Number four, we need to deploy the early
[2812.7s] churches model, the PPH model. Number
[2815.3s] five, we need to have a campus community
[2817.8s] impact relevant strategy. Number five,
[2820.8s] number six, we need to live and uphold
[2824.3s] our faith. And the seventh one is a life
[2828.0s] of excellence.
[2830.6s] Daniel 1:20. In every matter of wisdom
[2833.4s] and understanding about which the king
[2835.8s] questioned them, he found them 10 times
[2838.7s] better than all the magicians and
[2841.3s] enchanters in his whole kingdom. Then
[2844.2s] his this Daniel distinguished himself
[2847.5s] above the governors and setups because
[2850.6s] an excellent spirit was in him and the
[2853.8s] king gave thought to setting him over
[2856.9s] the whole realm. You can't be a 7-day
[2860.7s] Adventist and you are not excellent.
[2865.0s] We may have weaknesses and shortfalls
[2867.8s] but one of the strategies when I was the
[2870.6s] campus ministry director what we told
[2872.3s] the student is this
[2874.6s] some of you your spiritual gift is to
[2876.2s] get first class that's your spiritual
[2878.6s] gift we don't want you to do anything on
[2880.3s] campus all we want you to do is to get
[2882.7s] the best GPA so what we want to make a
[2885.8s] statement when it is graduation and
[2888.3s] those who are taking the the the best
[2890.8s] honors
[2892.3s] immediately they mention If there are 30
[2894.9s] Adventists must sweep more than half and
[2899.0s] then when you are being interviewed how
[2901.5s] what was the secret of your success? I
[2903.8s] thank God for the grace. I thank my
[2905.4s] teachers and the rest of this and I
[2907.0s] thank my faith. I I am a 7th day
[2909.0s] Adventist Christian and one of the key
[2911.2s] principle is whatever my hand finds to
[2913.4s] do it with all that is a that is a
[2916.5s] crusade.
[2918.5s] It is a crusade. But if you are the last
[2921.3s] in class,
[2922.9s] [Music]
[2924.1s] every day you are spiritual,
[2926.6s] every day you are in the spirit and you
[2928.8s] are praying, when the great come, you
[2931.7s] are first from behind.
[2935.2s] No. What the Bible says, Daniel was
[2940.2s] found to be 10 times better. And what
[2942.5s] did the king think? The king gave for
[2945.0s] thought to setting him over the whole
[2949.4s] realm. Why? He was excellent in the
[2952.6s] universities. One thing that must
[2954.5s] describe the advent I miss those days
[2956.8s] when Dr. Pip used to used to teach this.
[2959.3s] He says spiritual excellence and
[2961.2s] academic excellence. You must be
[2963.0s] brilliant yet you love the Lord. You are
[2966.0s] godly yet you are shack in class. You
[2969.6s] may not get all A's all the time, but
[2972.6s] you master your course. You know your
[2975.1s] stuff. That is Adventism 101. So
[2978.4s] somebody who says, "I'm an agnostic. I
[2980.8s] don't believe in God. I am an atheist. I
[2983.3s] don't believe in God." And then you are
[2986.2s] you are just they can't even understand
[2988.3s] basic concept of of algorithm and then
[2991.8s] they need to come to you to teach them.
[2993.6s] Then you have an advant
[2996.6s] even bad things and get away with it.
[2999.0s] But if you're an idiot in class, you are
[3000.6s] stupid. Your head is dumb. And then you
[3002.6s] are also coming to say why are you not
[3004.3s] coming to class? I'm going to church. H
[3008.3s] even the lecturer is angry. Why are you
[3011.1s] going to church? You a dummy. Your head
[3013.4s] is blocked and you are going to church.
[3016.3s] I pray in the name of Jesus that God
[3019.0s] will grant our students intelligence so
[3021.4s] that they will excel. Somebody should
[3023.0s] say an amen.
[3025.0s] Why must we excel? Look, I don't have
[3027.8s] time. The whole of creation was an act
[3030.6s] of excellence. Day one, day two, day
[3032.9s] three, I don't have time to on the
[3034.5s] screen, you can see it. Every day,
[3036.4s] creation was an act of excellence. Then
[3039.7s] if you watch, so when God ended his
[3042.2s] work, what did he say? Genesis 1:30. And
[3046.1s] God saw everything that he did, and
[3048.8s] behold, it was what? Very good.
[3051.3s] Excellent. So in other words, in our DNA
[3054.6s] is excellence.
[3056.6s] So we are prone to want to do things
[3059.6s] excellently. It include the way you
[3061.6s] brush your teeth, the way you smell.
[3063.4s] Some people finish eating and fish is
[3065.3s] smelling in their mouth and then you are
[3067.2s] so go and bath.
[3071.1s] You must be excellent.
[3074.0s] Then our redemption is a product of
[3076.8s] excellence.
[3078.6s] Do you know you can't sacrifice any
[3081.2s] animal
[3082.9s] for the sacrifice? You know that's The
[3085.9s] the sacrifice in the new old testament
[3088.3s] was a foreshadow. Go to the book of
[3090.8s] Micah Malachi 1:8. It says when you
[3094.9s] offer blind animals for sacrifice. Is
[3098.2s] that not wrong? When you sacrifice lame
[3101.2s] diseased animals, is that not wrong? Try
[3104.4s] offering to your governor. Give it to R.
[3108.1s] Will he be pleased with you? Will he
[3110.8s] accept you? Says the Lord Almighty. God
[3114.4s] says if your president cannot take it
[3116.6s] don't bring it to me. I went to a campus
[3119.5s] one day and the students were doing I
[3121.8s] said no way the flyer they did mediocre
[3127.0s] we rejected like those of you working
[3129.7s] with the student when it is time for you
[3131.8s] can't come and sing and there is no
[3134.1s] harmony h you are singing and I'm having
[3136.5s] headache I will sack you to sit down you
[3139.2s] don't come here to come and practice you
[3140.5s] practice in the room people must know
[3142.7s] that when you enter an SDA church
[3145.3s] everything those guys are doing they are
[3147.1s] serious they are not experimenting. You
[3149.9s] see in this day and age nobody has time
[3152.7s] for foolishness. So if you want to do
[3154.8s] church we need to do church well. So
[3156.9s] from day one I kept telling you if you
[3158.4s] know you come here you not sing well sit
[3160.0s] down.
[3162.0s] Why God says if R was coming here is
[3166.4s] this the way you are going to sing? If
[3167.8s] no don't bring it to me. It must be
[3170.6s] excellent. I wish I had time.
[3172.9s] Deuteronomy 15:21. And if it have any
[3177.0s] blemish as if it be lame or blind, any
[3180.6s] ill blemish whatsoever, thou shall not
[3182.7s] sacrifice it unto Jehovah thy God. God
[3185.5s] says, I don't take blemish sacrifice.
[3188.6s] Leviticus 25 22:2. And you must not
[3192.0s] accept such animals from the hand of a
[3194.1s] foreigner and offer them as food of of
[3196.8s] your God. They will not be accepted on
[3199.5s] your behalf because they are deformed
[3203.0s] and they are diseased. And later Paul
[3206.0s] says
[3207.6s] Romans 12, I appeal to you therefore by
[3211.3s] the mercies of God to present your
[3213.6s] bodies a living sacrifice, holy and
[3217.4s] acceptable to God, which is your
[3220.1s] spiritual worship.
[3222.2s] Therefore, you shall be perfect just as
[3225.5s] your holy father is perfect.
[3228.9s] So on campus for anybody to listen to us
[3232.6s] even before they think of us our
[3235.0s] packaging we are a church with good
[3237.5s] message bad packaging
[3240.3s] even nobody has listen no and listen to
[3243.4s] what Ellen White says the cities are
[3246.0s] where the universities are so whenever
[3248.6s] you read the spirit of prophecy is
[3250.3s] talking about principles on city
[3251.9s] evangelism they are applicable to the
[3254.6s] campus so here leny testimony for the
[3256.8s] churches volume 9 page 109 I'm racing
[3259.8s] against time in the cities of today
[3263.4s] where there is so much to attract and
[3265.6s] please the people and please the people
[3269.0s] can be interested by no ordinary effort
[3274.4s] ministers of God's appointment will find
[3277.4s] it necessary to put forth extraordinary
[3282.0s] effort in order to arrest the attention
[3285.1s] of the multitudes. In other words, not
[3287.7s] every pastor should preach on campus
[3292.5s] based on Ellen White.
[3295.3s] Please, you can't your You see, if your
[3298.6s] concord, your grammar, your he and she,
[3301.9s] they can't correlate. Sit down.
[3306.1s] Because Ellen White says in the cities
[3307.9s] of today where there is so much if your
[3311.2s] PA system cannot work well sit down.
[3314.6s] Stop worrying everybody's ear if you're
[3316.9s] live streaming
[3319.0s] sit down. People have no time in the
[3322.0s] universities and in the cities. And you
[3324.1s] see when you say it people say this
[3326.4s] preacher is so arrogant. That is my
[3328.0s] middle name. I'm okay because I am
[3331.0s] quoting the Bible and the spirit of
[3332.9s] prophecy. Ellen White says in the cities
[3335.7s] of today where there is so much to
[3338.2s] attract and please the people can be
[3342.0s] interested by no ordinary effort in
[3344.7s] other words no ordinary singing in other
[3347.0s] words no ordinary sermon in other words
[3349.4s] no ordinary Bible study in other words
[3351.9s] no ordinary decoration in other words no
[3355.0s] ordinary live streaming
[3361.4s] ministers of God's ointment will find it
[3364.5s] necessary. Ellen White say it is a
[3366.4s] necessity for a pastor, a preacher,
[3370.4s] church members to put forth
[3372.6s] extraordinary effort in order to arrest
[3375.5s] the attention of the multitudes. Then
[3378.4s] she says,
[3380.3s] and I quote, "And when they succeed
[3384.5s] in bringing together a large number of
[3386.8s] people, they must bear messages of a
[3390.6s] character so out of the usual order that
[3394.4s] the people will be aroused and the
[3397.2s] people will be warned." Testimony to the
[3399.4s] churches volume 9 page 109. So don't
[3402.8s] tell me you are singing your palm wine
[3404.9s] song on campus and he say you know what
[3407.5s] people Babylon Babylon and then your
[3410.6s] music cannot correlate sit down
[3417.0s] and young people must be told right from
[3419.4s] the campus so there must be orientation
[3422.6s] the campus acceptance is a jungle there
[3425.7s] is a lot of competition a lot of
[3427.8s] barriers so you can't make the work
[3429.8s] super difficult pain.
[3433.2s] God demand the highest standard on
[3436.0s] campus.
[3437.9s] Ellen White says they must make use of
[3440.4s] every means that can possibly be devised
[3443.4s] for causing the truth to stand out
[3446.6s] clearly and distinctly.
[3450.0s] The testing message for this time is to
[3452.7s] be born so plainly and decidedly as to
[3456.5s] startle the hearers and lead them to
[3458.9s] desire to study the scriptures.
[3463.1s] I recall when I was on campus,
[3467.8s] the posters on your screen were designed
[3471.0s] by a medical doctor eight years ago.
[3476.1s] They are nicer than posters in 2025. I
[3480.0s] want the team to please capture it.
[3484.2s] His name Josiah.
[3486.7s] He's a doctor. He was a student. So we
[3490.5s] are going to have a TLT beautiful design
[3494.6s] and when you are sharing it on your
[3497.0s] WhatsApp status
[3499.3s] but some of the posters an angel from
[3501.8s] your village is flying and another one
[3504.3s] where no way
[3506.6s] no way you cannot if you are a
[3510.9s] university student your social media
[3513.8s] design and not top class look for $50
[3518.4s] and engage a professional. If that is
[3520.6s] clear, somebody should scream and say an
[3522.2s] amen. Amen.
[3526.9s] It must be excellent.
[3530.3s] When we want to organize a Bible lecture
[3533.0s] series on the campus
[3536.1s] sometimes then we will go we are doing
[3537.5s] it in the universities.
[3541.1s] It's not just a crusade. So instead of
[3543.4s] doing in in the open air and when it is
[3545.8s] raining then we are hiding. Lord, please
[3548.6s] hold this wind of the rain. One pastor
[3550.8s] was saying that he was praying. He said,
[3553.0s] "If I'm a man of God, let the wind stop
[3556.1s] and the whole tent fell on him." Bro,
[3560.4s] false prophet has arisen among us. You
[3564.1s] need clean auditoriums. Please uh uh uh
[3568.2s] communication capture that. It it must
[3570.6s] be clean.
[3573.8s] Then the screens are decent. It must be
[3577.4s] planned because the spirit of prophecy
[3579.8s] says people have no time in the cities.
[3582.8s] I wish I could say more but in this
[3588.3s] look I don't have time
[3592.1s] in effort made in large cities one half
[3594.9s] of the labor is lost.
[3597.8s] We need the message we need the master.
[3600.6s] We need the messenger. We need the
[3602.6s] masses. We need the method and we need
[3604.7s] the means. Tomorrow I'm going to talk
[3606.0s] about money. Campus ministry is not
[3608.2s] cheap. City crusade or evangelism is not
[3610.4s] cheap. It needs pocket people on
[3613.0s] Sabbath. I am coming after new life. You
[3616.1s] guys with the money must release it for
[3618.5s] the campuses. What do you mean? You have
[3620.6s] the money and you What do you mean? I
[3624.0s] mean, what do you mean? It is not cheap.
[3631.4s] Tell somebody,
[3633.7s] "We shall do it."
[3636.0s] No. Come on. That's a weak one.
[3640.2s] Have you eaten chapati?
[3643.3s] Tell somebody, "We shall do it." We
[3646.5s] shall do it. That's a good one. Say it
[3648.2s] one more time. We shall do it.
[3651.8s] A new generation of Adventists must
[3653.9s] emerge who will say if it must be done,
[3658.3s] it must be done well.
[3664.6s] Without this, the campuses are gone.
[3668.6s] The eighth strategy for the sake of time
[3670.4s] I will take a little bit of your time to
[3672.2s] wrap this up.
[3676.2s] Ellen White talked about adopting
[3678.3s] medical missionary. Let me give a
[3680.2s] disclaimer. is not your charcoal and
[3681.8s] clay.
[3683.8s] Medical missionary is not your charcoal
[3685.9s] and clay.
[3687.8s] Let me say it one more time. Medical
[3690.3s] missionary is not charcoal and pepper
[3693.0s] and clay mixed together as if you are a
[3695.4s] herbalist. That is not medical
[3697.0s] missionary.
[3701.4s] Listen Daniel 1:8. But Daniel resolved
[3705.0s] not to defile himself with the royal
[3707.0s] food and wine. and he asked the chief
[3709.0s] official for permission not to defile
[3711.7s] himself this way. So I'm saying one way
[3715.2s] to break the tangles on campus is
[3718.2s] medical missionary students get sick and
[3720.5s] the rest of it we need to have a
[3722.2s] superior strategy. What did Elen Wise
[3724.5s] say? He says medical missionary is the
[3726.9s] opening doors for evangelism. Let me
[3729.0s] give you some quotes. One, evangelism,
[3730.9s] page 513. Nothing will open doors for
[3733.8s] the truth like evangelistic
[3736.6s] medical missionary. Take note, it's not
[3738.9s] just medical missionary. She qualifies
[3741.0s] it evangelistic
[3743.0s] medical missionary. Don't deceive us.
[3745.7s] She says evangelistic medical missionary
[3748.6s] word. This will find access to hearts
[3751.8s] and minds and will be the means of
[3754.5s] converting many to the truth. Doors that
[3759.0s] has been closed to him who merely
[3762.2s] preaches the gospel will be open to the
[3765.2s] intelligent
[3766.8s] medical missionary. Ellen White
[3769.1s] describes it's not your charcoal and
[3771.8s] clay. She says the medical missionary
[3775.0s] that works is the intelligent medical
[3778.4s] missionary. It's not your shrine version
[3781.0s] of mixing concussion.
[3784.1s] No, it must be done intelligently. God
[3787.4s] reaches heart through the relief of
[3790.4s] physical suffering. I have a lot of
[3793.0s] quotes on it. I could go on and on. But
[3795.1s] in summary, medical missionary. The
[3799.0s] ninth strategy is qualitative worship
[3802.7s] experience.
[3804.9s] Qualitative. If we want to win the
[3807.0s] campuses, our worship experience must
[3810.1s] not just be
[3812.6s] Monday you are in church, Tuesday you
[3813.8s] are in church. If you are meeting even
[3816.4s] twice, it must be qualitative.
[3821.1s] Quality attracts quantity.
[3826.2s] Now, how do I know? Listen to Ellen.
[3829.6s] Why? So, I quoted this already talking
[3831.8s] about the cities. Now, hear what she
[3834.3s] said about our prayer meetings.
[3838.7s] Christians do not always make the public
[3840.8s] worship of God of sufficient importance.
[3845.6s] They do not realize their responsibility
[3848.9s] in the matter.
[3851.1s] The prayer meeting especially is often
[3855.2s] dull,
[3857.1s] spiritless,
[3859.0s] and unattractive. I'm quoting from the
[3861.8s] book The Science of the Times, December
[3864.2s] 4th, 1884.
[3867.2s] The prayer meetings especially is often
[3871.4s] dull,
[3873.3s] spiritless
[3874.9s] and unattractive. When we do our
[3878.0s] fellowships this way, nobody will join.
[3881.6s] Then we begin to wonder why are they
[3883.5s] going to some churches they don't have
[3885.0s] the truth. Ellen White says our problem
[3887.4s] is we we our worship experiences are not
[3890.5s] qualitative in nature. Then she said,
[3896.5s] sorry,
[3898.7s] but if need be, if but it need not be, I
[3903.0s] meant to say, even where few laugh an
[3906.6s] hour of prayer, it may be made
[3909.8s] interesting and profitable. In other
[3911.7s] words, even if you are few people, make
[3913.8s] the prayer meeting interesting and
[3915.9s] profitable. The presence of Jesus is not
[3919.3s] confined to large assemblies. In other
[3921.4s] words, we are only planning about
[3924.0s] powerful sessions if crowds will gather.
[3927.0s] And then why says even if there are few
[3929.0s] people in the fellowship, the fellowship
[3931.4s] experience must be qualitative. Now she
[3934.1s] made a huge statement in testimony for
[3936.1s] the churches volume 4 page 70 and I'm
[3938.7s] going to quote three or two paragraphs.
[3941.7s] The prayer meeting should be the most
[3943.3s] interesting gatherings that are held
[3946.5s] but these are frequently poorly managed.
[3950.5s] Many attend preaching but neglect the
[3953.5s] the prayer meeting. Many people go to
[3956.3s] divine service, they don't attend
[3958.0s] Wednesday prayer meeting. What did they
[3959.8s] learn? Why say is the reason the prayer
[3961.7s] meetings are poorly managed?
[3965.6s] Here again thought is required
[3968.6s] intelligence thinking wisdom should be
[3971.7s] sought of God and plans should be laid
[3974.5s] to conduct the meeting so that they will
[3977.3s] be interesting and attractive. The
[3980.2s] people hunger for the bread of life. If
[3983.0s] they find it at prayer meeting, they
[3985.8s] will go there to receive it. I read it
[3989.0s] again. The people
[3991.8s] hunger for the bread of life. If they
[3994.9s] find it at prayer meeting, they will go
[3998.2s] there to receive it. So if we want to
[4001.3s] win the campuses,
[4003.7s] we need to have qualitative worship
[4006.3s] experience. What do I mean? Let me give
[4008.6s] some pointers. One
[4011.0s] prayer meeting must must be the most
[4013.4s] nourishing activity on campus. So people
[4016.7s] say SDS don't pray, SDS don't pray. When
[4019.0s] I hear it, my heart
[4021.3s] organize the prayer meetings
[4022.8s] thoughtfully.
[4025.5s] Thoughtfully, intelligently. Number two,
[4029.7s] thoughtful planning is essential. Number
[4031.8s] three, seek God's wisdom first. I'm just
[4034.7s] g principle from the quote. Number four,
[4037.0s] aim to make prayer meetings interesting
[4039.4s] and attractive. I recall when I used to
[4041.6s] be a church pastor, the choir will be
[4044.6s] seated at prayer meeting.
[4047.7s] Every first Wednesday of the month or
[4050.9s] every last Wednesday of the month prayer
[4053.4s] meeting it should be like a divine
[4055.8s] service and it should be prayer field.
[4058.9s] Understand the hunger of the people. So
[4061.5s] what is the need on campus? What
[4063.4s] anniversary is it? What situation is
[4065.4s] this? Pitch the prayer meeting. Posters
[4067.7s] should be designed to attract for prayer
[4070.2s] meetings. Every Wednesday I hold a
[4072.3s] prayer meeting. They design flyers every
[4075.0s] day. Every Wednesday. Nothing stops it.
[4079.0s] Give prayer meetings equal or greater
[4082.3s] priorities. Ellen White says and then
[4085.5s] she says look the prayer meeting must be
[4088.8s] done. So if you ask me how must the
[4090.7s] prayer meetings be organized? Plan for
[4093.0s] purpose not just for order. Then prepare
[4097.1s] people not just programs. Then start on
[4100.5s] time every time.
[4103.4s] Then announcement should be brief and
[4106.9s] worship must be deeply experiential.
[4110.3s] Then lead by example.
[4113.0s] Let the music lift the souls and make
[4116.3s] every meeting win souls. Anyone who
[4119.7s] walks into our prayer meeting when we
[4122.1s] are starting a prayer meeting on campus
[4124.6s] the people who are leading the song they
[4126.8s] say SCS they just sing hymn SD they just
[4129.1s] sing hymn. The organist should not be an
[4131.5s] incompetent organist.
[4134.2s] He must know his staff. When he lift the
[4137.2s] key and the musicians are singing I mean
[4141.6s] in harmony those who are singing altern.
[4151.8s] So what do we do? Uh today who is coming
[4154.8s] for Wednesday prayer meeting.
[4163.4s] I've been watching Wednesday prayer
[4165.0s] meetings. I'll go from this church in
[4166.7s] this country. This church I've been
[4168.1s] watching. Sometimes you can feel that
[4170.2s] it's only one person who is here and
[4172.2s] trying to do something so that they
[4173.8s] don't say that the church is closed. So
[4175.4s] we just do it just to fill in the blank.
[4177.0s] So you see the person and then it's like
[4181.7s] what nonsense is this?
[4184.6s] No,
[4186.8s] the local churches can do it not campus
[4189.8s] because very soon the elders and the
[4191.2s] pastors they will die. We'll bury them.
[4192.8s] to the young people, you will take over
[4194.5s] the church.
[4196.2s] So if you too you are doing Wednesday
[4198.7s] prayer meeting like that then you better
[4201.0s] die earlier before the elders.
[4208.6s] Will I be invited to this church again?
[4211.0s] I am finished. Pastor Elvis, forgive me.
[4215.6s] A demon from my village has come over
[4217.4s] me.
[4220.0s] How do we evade the intellectual jungle?
[4223.4s] Number one, we need converted and
[4225.5s] revived nuclos. Number two, we need
[4227.8s] effective discipline strategy. Number
[4229.8s] three, we need to embrace the wild
[4231.4s] densis model. Number four, we need the
[4233.8s] early churches model, the PPH model.
[4236.0s] Number five, we need to do campus
[4238.6s] community impact relevance assessment.
[4240.8s] Number six, we need to live and uphold
[4242.6s] the faith. Number seven, we need to
[4245.0s] demonstrate a life of excellence. Number
[4248.2s] eight, we need to adopt medical
[4250.2s] missionary. Number nine, we need
[4252.3s] qualitative worship experience. And the
[4254.9s] last one is embrace soul winning as a
[4259.4s] lifestyle, not a program.
[4262.7s] Now, I'll take time and do this quietly,
[4267.4s] but this is the heart of all I've
[4269.0s] attempted to say.
[4272.4s] I've been doing campus ministry
[4273.8s] technically
[4275.8s] for the past 20 something years. I've
[4278.7s] been preaching for 27 years, but I've
[4281.1s] been doing campus ministry close to 20
[4283.4s] years now. Hear me.
[4287.3s] What is the method? Many people think
[4289.8s] campus ministry is the same method you
[4291.6s] are going to use in the cities. No, no,
[4293.4s] no, no, no. They are completely
[4295.2s] different. So, take notes. Those of you
[4298.0s] watching online, you can take
[4299.2s] screenshot. I won't give you my slide
[4301.4s] because I'll produce it as a book so you
[4303.1s] will not get it. Disclaimer. Now Ellen
[4307.2s] White made a statement and says Christ
[4311.1s] method alone
[4313.4s] gave true success in reaching the
[4315.0s] people. The savior mingled with men as
[4317.1s] one who desired their good. He showed
[4319.0s] his sympathy for them, ministered to
[4320.9s] their needs and won their confidence.
[4323.0s] Then he based them follow me. So what's
[4324.9s] the method? Number one, Christ method,
[4328.2s] simplicity, practicality and what I call
[4331.6s] authenticity.
[4333.4s] So this is the first framework for
[4335.8s] campus. It must be based on Christ
[4338.3s] method. It must be simple. It must be
[4341.8s] practical and it must be authentic. So
[4345.0s] where do we start? Please, we are not
[4348.1s] talking about public campaign. Now
[4351.4s] if you want to start a campus
[4353.0s] interaction and the campus students some
[4354.9s] of you are here and you want to win
[4357.4s] souls for Jesus
[4359.5s] three things must define it interest
[4362.7s] friendship and community. Take genuine
[4366.6s] interest in people's life. Learn their
[4370.2s] names. Notice their struggles, their
[4374.2s] joys and their stories. People listen to
[4377.2s] those who care. So point number every
[4380.9s] Adventist student must be taught how to
[4383.2s] be interested in people. When you meet
[4384.8s] somebody for the first time, when you
[4386.5s] meet them the second time, you call them
[4388.1s] by their name and they feel they are
[4391.1s] important and they are relevant.
[4393.7s] So we need to learn how to be interested
[4396.4s] in people. I don't have time. I have
[4398.4s] seven rules under it. Now then there
[4401.5s] must be friendship.
[4404.1s] Friendship is what opens the heart. You
[4407.0s] must be a real friend. Someone they can
[4410.1s] trust. Don't be fake. Be real. Not just
[4413.5s] a person. You see, sometimes we only
[4415.6s] befriend people when it is getting to
[4417.8s] crusade. We want to do we want to win
[4419.7s] them. No. From first year immediately
[4422.8s] the academic year opens. In Ghana, we
[4426.2s] when I was in charge of campus ministry,
[4427.6s] we do what we call TLT, transformational
[4430.4s] leadership training. the agenda and the
[4433.0s] strategy for the year. We'll discuss it
[4435.1s] between all the campus leaders. They
[4436.8s] will gather. I I'll give you a mission
[4438.9s] report on Sabbath. So, learn how to
[4441.4s] befriend people and then be interested
[4444.3s] in the community. That's what I said.
[4446.6s] What does the University of Nairobi
[4448.9s] need? So, as a fellowship, we have
[4451.4s] identified seven needs in the University
[4453.6s] of Nairobi and we want to help the
[4456.1s] university become a better place. Like
[4458.3s] in Psalm 122 he say pray for the peace
[4460.6s] of Jerusalem. In her peace you will find
[4463.0s] your peace. So when the universities are
[4465.4s] better our church sometimes we are
[4468.2s] parasitic in nature. I say sometimes we
[4471.4s] just want to go and harvest people. We
[4473.4s] don't add value to the place. No campus
[4476.3s] ministries show interest in the people
[4479.3s] befriend the people and the community.
[4481.3s] If I were to speaking to church leaders
[4483.4s] who say the church must take the campus
[4485.6s] and be interested in the campus be
[4487.6s] interested in having friendship with the
[4489.8s] campus from an organizational
[4491.7s] perspective and the community of the
[4493.8s] campus. So how where do you start? There
[4497.8s] are two areas sorry you start from. Many
[4502.1s] people begin doing outreach on campus by
[4504.1s] sharing their beliefs first
[4508.0s] or some say you share your experience
[4510.6s] first. Ellen White advice start by
[4514.2s] sharing your beliefs first. Danger. What
[4518.4s] happens when you share your beliefs
[4520.4s] first? It sounds like you are focusing
[4523.4s] on doctrine, you are focusing on
[4524.9s] theology, you are focusing on rules.
[4526.9s] They feel like it's a classroom, it's a
[4528.6s] debate and often people become repulsive
[4531.7s] and the risk is there is no personal
[4534.1s] connection. But when you start by
[4536.3s] sharing your beliefs first the things
[4538.8s] you have encountered your experience I
[4541.0s] meant to say you are able to win people.
[4544.1s] So instead of saying you are 7day
[4546.2s] Adventist and the rest you keep the
[4547.7s] Sabbath and the rest of it
[4550.2s] somebody's struggling on campus and you
[4552.7s] tell them I believe in the power of
[4554.5s] prayer in 2008. I was in this situation
[4558.6s] and I read a text in Psalm 103:4
[4562.9s] and I got this result. I believe in the
[4565.4s] power of prayer. The person is easy to
[4568.6s] relate than for you to give a Bible
[4570.6s] study on speaking in tongues. So share
[4573.2s] your experience first. This is what
[4575.7s] Ellen Y says concerning that desire of
[4578.1s] ages page 3:40.
[4580.5s] As witnesses for Christ, we are to tell
[4583.4s] what we know, what we ourselves have
[4587.2s] seen and heard and felt. Take note. If
[4591.9s] we have been following Jesus step by
[4593.8s] step, we shall have something right to
[4596.4s] the point to tell concerning the way in
[4599.1s] which he has led us. This is the witness
[4602.8s] for which our Lord calls and for want of
[4606.4s] which the world is perishing. The world
[4609.2s] is not perishing because people are not
[4611.1s] explaining the mark of the beast. The
[4613.0s] world is perishing because we don't know
[4615.4s] how to tell people our personal stories
[4618.6s] and what God has done. Take note. So the
[4622.7s] campus module is it must be very
[4625.7s] personal. Now you need to be very smart
[4629.4s] when you are doing dealing with this
[4631.5s] jungle.
[4633.0s] You need to know they are very busy on
[4635.5s] campus. So you keep it simple, you keep
[4638.0s] it coincided, you use leisure periods,
[4640.8s] you use accessible technology wisely.
[4643.3s] Some people send you broadcast message
[4645.9s] to the point that you block them. Don't
[4648.2s] don't do that. You keep it irrelevant
[4651.5s] and keeping it relevant is serious.
[4654.3s] Sometimes the way we frame our project
[4657.6s] the same things you can do but we need
[4660.3s] to know how to make it relevant.
[4663.2s] So in the university campus so if you
[4665.3s] are going to be preaching on a
[4666.6s] university number one they are there for
[4669.2s] first academic pursuit. So what has the
[4671.8s] Bible said concerning the academic
[4673.8s] pursuit? Every young person on campus
[4676.0s] want to be relevant and significant in
[4678.2s] life. You need to develop a message
[4681.2s] coincides
[4683.0s] simple relevant to their needs. You also
[4686.4s] need to know that many are very worldly
[4688.5s] on the university. So what do we do?
[4690.8s] Let's join their clubs. Let's join the
[4693.4s] society, the debating club, the
[4695.5s] psychology club, the medical students
[4697.4s] club. Invite them to join yours too.
[4701.7s] And you need to do this tactfully.
[4703.2s] Engage on the issues they care about. So
[4705.8s] you are listening to the polls of this
[4707.6s] people. what are their needs and the
[4709.6s] rest of it. You are getting a feel. So
[4711.7s] if you are bringing a preacher for a
[4714.4s] week-l long revival and you want to
[4716.7s] invite non-Aventist to join, you already
[4719.5s] know what they discuss in their clubs.
[4721.6s] You know what are their fears, you know
[4723.7s] what they are their desperation. This
[4725.8s] data must be ch out to the speakers.
[4728.8s] Don't only say that the Holy Spirit will
[4730.6s] reveal to them. No, there is a data
[4732.7s] version of ministry. You also need to
[4735.5s] know that they are very smart. So if you
[4739.3s] go unprepared, you disgrace yourself. So
[4742.0s] if you are quoting a Bible verse, double
[4743.6s] check it.
[4746.9s] Yesterday or two days ago, we're in the
[4748.3s] room, we had to read a text. I asked the
[4749.8s] lady, read it again. She read it. She
[4751.8s] made some mistake. We we corrected it
[4753.8s] before we came to public. People are
[4755.8s] smart. So don't come and make needless
[4758.3s] mistake. Be well prepared. If they ask
[4761.4s] you a question you don't know, say I
[4763.6s] want to crossch checkck on this. Don't
[4766.1s] pretend to know it all and start
[4768.1s] fumbling. You don't have to know
[4769.9s] everything to minister on campus. Be
[4772.3s] respectful.
[4774.6s] If your the person you are trying to
[4777.2s] proide, make a statement that is solid
[4780.5s] sound. You admit I have not looked at it
[4783.0s] from this perspective. That was a
[4784.5s] brilliant point. I will add it to my
[4786.2s] stock of knowledge. Hoops. They see that
[4788.9s] you are authentic.
[4791.7s] Most of the time on campus preaching is
[4793.9s] unnecessary.
[4795.8s] Many Africans are highly religious
[4797.5s] already. Teaching is useful on campus
[4800.4s] than preaching.
[4802.2s] So when you want to engage them in
[4804.2s] sharing your belief, discuss. Don't
[4807.7s] lecture.
[4809.9s] When they are saying something that
[4811.8s] contradict, give what I call reasonable
[4814.8s] objection in a mild way.
[4818.4s] Affirm what is true and and the rest of
[4821.5s] it. Ellen White made a statement. She
[4824.1s] said, "Speak to them as you have
[4827.5s] opportunity upon points of doctrine on
[4831.0s] which you can agree.
[4833.4s] Don't start discussing from areas you
[4836.2s] don't agree. Dwell on the necessity of
[4839.3s] practical godliness. Give them evidence
[4842.3s] that you are a Christian. You are
[4844.7s] desiring peace and you love their souls.
[4847.6s] Let them see that you are consensious.
[4850.0s] Thus you will gain their confidence and
[4852.6s] there will be time enough for doctrines.
[4857.0s] I can get seven point out of this goal.
[4859.8s] So what is the road map? Three broad
[4861.9s] strategies. One
[4865.1s] build relationship by engaging
[4868.0s] connecting and witnessing to them. to
[4870.8s] socially engage with them, get to know
[4873.4s] them, keep the spiritual element. Even
[4875.8s] if you are going to a meeting that is
[4878.2s] for worldly activity in quotes and you
[4881.9s] are to be there because you are
[4883.5s] broliting someone, let them know you are
[4886.6s] a Christian. I recall I was on campus, I
[4889.8s] need to visit a Muslim gathering for a
[4891.8s] Muslim program. I was there. They called
[4894.6s] me. They know I am a Christian. But I
[4898.0s] didn't make it look offensive to them.
[4903.9s] Look what is the effect. I could go on.
[4906.7s] There are some effects you need to take
[4909.0s] note of. See,
[4912.0s] it's difficult. You need to put in a lot
[4914.2s] of effort.
[4916.2s] To win souls on campus is not easy. It's
[4918.7s] not cheap. You need to know your Bibles
[4921.4s] deeply. You need to learn about your
[4923.7s] friend's religion. So somebody is a
[4926.1s] charismatic Pentecostal Christian in
[4928.2s] Nairobi. So immediately the person is a
[4931.0s] charismatic Pentecostal. You need to
[4932.7s] know that there will be issues of signs
[4934.5s] and wonders, prophecy, uh miracles and
[4937.3s] the rest of it. In Kenya, you are
[4939.5s] looking at Bishop Margaret. You are
[4941.8s] looking at Prophet David. Is it O W?
[4947.9s] You know if it's the professional
[4951.8s] is it odingo oding also don and the rest
[4954.9s] of them you need to know what they are
[4957.2s] doing
[4960.2s] is it situm is is it called sittum I
[4963.1s] came to your country I sat in sitt to
[4965.4s] check some one or two staff so that
[4967.5s] we'll be able to minister you need to
[4969.4s] know
[4970.9s] if the person is a Muslim you need to
[4973.8s] know understand the broad Muslim
[4975.4s] philosophy underpinning Now you need to
[4978.0s] understand Islam in Kenya. You need to
[4981.1s] know the special areas especially the
[4983.8s] northern uh the Nairobi eastern
[4986.0s] religion. You you need to know I've done
[4988.9s] the work on it and you need to
[4990.6s] understand if you are dealing with
[4991.8s] African traditional religious person you
[4993.8s] need to know the framework. If you are
[4995.4s] dealing with what we call evangelical
[4997.5s] Christianity what are their key
[4999.7s] underpinnings? If you are dealing with
[5001.8s] an orthodox historic Christian what must
[5004.3s] you do? Some people are into philosophy.
[5008.0s] So you need to understand classical
[5010.0s] western thinkers Plato aristotel and
[5013.7s] Hume their skepticism and their
[5016.9s] imperialism and also the ideals for
[5020.0s] justice. You need to have a fair idea.
[5022.0s] Don't be an idiot who will not know your
[5024.2s] left and right yet you are trying to
[5025.9s] proite. No.
[5028.3s] When someone is deep in science and
[5030.6s] secular thought, what must you do? In
[5033.5s] simple terms
[5036.2s] that's why Ellen White says in
[5038.1s] universities we need to do a lot of
[5039.8s] teaching not preaching
[5043.0s] you need to do a lot of sacrifice
[5045.5s] look if somebody say I'm evangelical
[5047.4s] Christian you need to understand Ravi
[5050.4s] Zacharias and John Piper and their
[5053.6s] philosophical theological underpinning
[5055.5s] all this there must be training
[5058.8s] now
[5060.6s] it needs time.
[5063.0s] There are no shortcuts.
[5065.6s] You must be accommodative.
[5068.0s] Sometimes you get frustrated.
[5070.5s] Sometimes you need to leave your comfort
[5072.3s] zone. Sometimes you need to go the extra
[5074.6s] mile.
[5076.2s] So they ask a question. The question
[5077.8s] about God is God real? Is law real? Is
[5080.8s] Christianity real? All these things, the
[5083.4s] journey can be frustrating.
[5085.7s] Many times when we talk about evangelism
[5088.2s] reaching out immediately it is a program
[5090.2s] they ask how many how did a crusade go?
[5093.2s] How many people were baptized? How many
[5095.8s] this was this? No no no no no. I want to
[5099.2s] tell you this is the progress. Watch.
[5102.9s] Sometimes on campus
[5105.8s] somebody is ignorant
[5108.5s] and after working with the person for a
[5110.6s] while the person will start to hear what
[5113.6s] you are saying.
[5115.4s] From hearing the person will now move
[5118.4s] from hearing to open mind.
[5122.3s] Then from open mind somebody will be an
[5125.3s] open-minded person. No nothing else. But
[5127.6s] after working working the person will
[5129.7s] move to what I call interest.
[5133.0s] From interest the person is just
[5134.9s] interested. You work work work. Then the
[5137.2s] person will get to a place we call
[5138.8s] discovery.
[5140.7s] Somebody will want to discover. You work
[5142.7s] with the person for work work. Then the
[5144.6s] person may get to a place we call they
[5146.2s] are now struggling.
[5148.2s] Somebody may move from struggle to
[5150.6s] acceptance and somebody move from
[5152.6s] acceptance to action. All this layers
[5156.8s] they are progress. Baptism is not the
[5159.9s] definition of success on campus
[5162.7s] ministries.
[5165.7s] A bottom line I want you to take away.
[5167.7s] So if you are working with somebody who
[5169.3s] is ignorant and the person is now
[5171.7s] hearing the gospel is progress. From
[5175.3s] hearing to open mind is progress from
[5178.7s] open mind to interest is progress from
[5182.0s] interest. The person has discovered some
[5183.8s] truth is interest is is progress from
[5186.6s] discovery to struggle. Now they are
[5188.6s] battling in the valley of decision. From
[5191.2s] struggle when they accept is progress.
[5194.8s] It's not enough. after accepting they
[5198.0s] need to take an action. So don't get
[5200.2s] discouraged. You just need to know where
[5202.6s] your client or your prospect is. Ladies
[5205.6s] and gentlemen,
[5207.7s] I wish I could share some 10 ideas you
[5210.6s] can use to do campus ministries. Time
[5213.0s] will not allow me but in some as we
[5216.6s] close for tonight.
[5218.8s] I believe Ellen White
[5221.5s] keep it simple.
[5223.8s] Don't keep it too philos sophisticated.
[5226.2s] Keep it simple. How do I know? Please
[5229.2s] keep it simple. It's not complex. Ellen
[5232.9s] White says, "Present the gospel in its
[5235.7s] simplicity.
[5237.8s] Follow Christ's example and you have the
[5240.8s] reward of seeing your students one to
[5244.4s] him." What is the secret? Simplicity.
[5248.1s] Evangelism page 443.
[5250.9s] Even the great men are more easily drawn
[5254.4s] by the simplicity
[5256.6s] of the gospel than by any effort made in
[5260.5s] human power. How can we win the jungles?
[5264.3s] Simplicity.
[5267.2s] Somewhere else, sons and daughters of
[5269.5s] God, page 266, Ellen White says, "What
[5272.6s] you need is a living experience in the
[5275.8s] things of God and simplicity
[5279.1s] in presenting the love of Christ to the
[5281.6s] lost." Evangelism page 55 57 paragraph
[5285.4s] 2. Great men,
[5287.9s] learned men can be reached better how by
[5293.1s] the simplicity
[5295.4s] of a godly life than all the sharp
[5298.2s] argument that may be poured upon them.
[5301.5s] Ladies and gentlemen,
[5303.8s] lastly,
[5306.2s] the church
[5308.2s] is looking for better methods,
[5311.1s] but God is looking for better men.
[5317.6s] All we have said will be useless
[5321.3s] unless individuals have move from being
[5325.0s] fans of Jesus to becoming followers.
[5329.2s] Embound says the church is always
[5333.9s] looking for better methods.
[5336.7s] God is looking for better men.
[5342.2s] And I want to challenge you this evening
[5345.3s] wherever you are or afternoon if you're
[5347.4s] in West Africa.
[5349.5s] Let's thrive to be the better man that
[5352.6s] God can use in this last days. And I
[5355.7s] ask, is it possible? Yes or no? Yes.
[5359.3s] With all the strategies we have done, if
[5362.4s] we are not the better men and we focus
[5365.6s] only on the better method, the Holy
[5368.4s] Spirit cannot work on us. So as we think
[5372.2s] of campus and put this into practice,
[5375.7s] one thing I ask the Lord, make me a
[5379.0s] better man. Make her a better woman.
[5383.2s] Make him a better young man. Make her a
[5387.1s] better young lady. Is it possible? Yes
[5390.6s] or no? Yes. Yes, brothers.
[5394.6s] Father in heaven
[5397.2s] for tonight,
[5399.4s] it's a simple message.
[5403.0s] We need to move up and down,
[5406.6s] but this is your work.
[5409.4s] You said it will be done by those who
[5413.9s] are thought and they are led of God.
[5417.9s] Teach us
[5420.0s] through the scriptures.
[5422.6s] Teach us through the writings of Ellen
[5425.5s] White. Teach us through the data we will
[5430.4s] seek and by your grace we can do exploit
[5435.3s] in our generation. Bless New Life Church
[5439.9s] on the continent. Few churches have
[5443.0s] dedicated a whole week for campus
[5446.5s] ministries. This church is an exemplary
[5450.3s] church in their feeble struggle.
[5454.4s] Lift them up. Bless the pastors.
[5458.7s] Bless the elders. Bless the church
[5461.6s] members of this church. Bless the
[5464.0s] campuses, the student leaders, the
[5466.7s] musicians, the IT team, the organist,
[5470.2s] the graphic designers, the
[5472.1s] photographers, the videographers, those
[5475.0s] coordinating behind the scene. Everyone
[5478.1s] wants to please Jesus. We pray where our
[5482.2s] offerings and sacrifices do not meet the
[5485.5s] standard. May the Holy Spirit have mercy
[5489.0s] on us until we meet tomorrow to look at
[5493.0s] the last night session. How can we fund
[5496.2s] campus ministry? We pray that give us
[5499.9s] another privilege. Bless our online
[5502.4s] audience. Bless our church members
[5504.7s] watching from home. and bless the heart
[5507.4s] of those who are searching. Let this be
[5509.9s] our experience for we have asked in
[5513.0s] Jesus's name. Amen.