Title: Sermon | Going Forward Amidst Obstacles | Pr. Gerald Mochoge
Video ID: U3GtHWilOdA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U3GtHWilOdA
--------------------------------------------------

FULL TRANSCRIPT:
[Music] We bless the name of the father, the son, and the holy spirit. Amen. Happy Sabbath everyone. Happy Sabbath again. Happy. Let me be from this side. Happy Sabbath. Happy day. Happy Sabbath again. Happy day. And happy Sabbath this side. Happy. This one's the eight wabs. I love that. All right, this side. Happy Sabbath. Happy. All right. All the bases are on this side. Happy Sabbath. Happy. All our children are this side. Church members, happy Sabbath. Happy day. And happy day. Happy Sabbath. Isn't it good that we are in God's house? Yes, it is. I must confess all the choirs have sung powerfully. Who who can testify with me that they have sung powerfully? Yes. Es God bless you. Somebody should not say that I'm the one who started it. They just started and bless that group. Redemption. God bless you. One of the things I normally say is that whenever there's a backup, the only greatest test is when stimmer in that is when we get to know whether the choir is a choir or they are depending on the backup. But redemption, they hit the mark and may the lord bless your redemption. The scripture in the book of uh proverbs says that uh for the virtuous woman they say that you are one of the greatest but you all daughters are good but you the virtuous woman have done what? Surpassed them all. And may I say the choir you have surpassed them all. I wished that that could have been a sermon and it ends at that. How excellent, kind is his name. And we're grateful because that's the emphasis of the sermon today. I only wonder every day, every time, why I see what I see in choirs. And I only pray that the repetition of the same is not seen in the kingdom to come. Somebody asked me why. Why do we always have 28 women and 14 men? In all choirs, it must be men, a few, and ladies are what? Many. My only prayer that that is not repeated in heaven. And so because of that, I'm going to make a very serious call today that we may have people of the likes of Elder Rotic and Omura and Shimron and Elder the others that they may join the choir. Amen. All in favor say I. I. Elura, don't say contra. All right. I am going to also request my elder mog to join and sing his beautiful tenner in the choir and when they will join be sure I will join and so let me request all of us to be upstanding kindly let's all be upstanding I urge you church members to resume the purity of the word of God in your homes. Amen. I urge you church members to uphold the statitudes of God in this church and in wherever place you shall be. And I urge my leaders that going forward this Bible remains here all times to tell the entire world who come to Fifth Gong Avenue New Life that we treasure the word of God. Amen. And my prayer is that every place where we are may we remain in the foundation of the word. Please repeat after me everyone. I'm humbled to be a part of God's family. I'm humbled to be a part of Please say it like you mean it. The hope of a new life in Christ Jesus. The hope of a new life in Christ. I hold on to Bible truth. I hold on to Bible truth. The breath of God. The breath of God to sanctify me. sanctify me. I grow daily to perfection. [Music] For I have a heaven to gain. For I have a heaven to and a hell to shine. and a hell to finally hold your hands together. Reals repeat these words. Let us star love. Can we repeat that one more time? Let us star love. Let us love one with another. One with another. Match them all. Match them all. As the day approaches, as the day approaches, let's bow our heads as we pray together. Father in the stillness of this moment, this is your time. Glorify your son because you've promised that when he shall be lifted up, he shall draw all men to himself. and through the power of the Holy Spirit speak through this feeble being. And my father, may the words that shall be shared here this afternoon be embedded in the hearts of your children to the glory and honor of your name. You have promised that I shall diminish as Christ is be exalted. May this be the sharity of this message this afternoon. For these things we ask in Jesus name. And let God's children say amen. Amen. Please be seated. I'd like everyone to hold their Bibles, please, because I'm going to take you through a challenge of studying the word this afternoon. I want to welcome everyone of you to transacting some business, what we call the church business meeting. We'll be here at 2. I'll be leading through a devotion of a whole book in the Bible for about 20 minutes before we engage in the church business meeting. How many are promising to be there? Let me see by show of hands. I'm going to do a whole book of the Bible for about 20 to 30 minutes as we engage in the church business this afternoon. And so I want to welcome you to that. But at this moment, allow me for the interest of time to take you to the book of 2 Chronicles. Church, which book did I say? Now, if you have your Bibles with you, please open them. Open the Bibles with you because I'm going to take you through a story of a gentleman that is called King Jehoshaphat. Can you repeat that one more time, church? His story starts from chapter 17. But our emphasis is going to be in chapter 20. Now, for you to understand how Jehoshaphat comes into the picture, as you hold your Bibles with you, because I'm going to take you through the Bible. As you hold your Bibles, just listen to me. The Bible says that God wants to institute a nation from whence the world can see his goodness and because of that he starts which nation called Israel. Of course it was his desire to lead this nation in what we call theocracy but they didn't love it and they went straight to democracy because they wanted to look like other nations. Church members that's where the danger begins. The danger begins when we want to look like others. The danger begins when this church wants to ape the others. The danger begins when children begin eating the food of neighbors and urging them to always love it rather than their mothers. That's where the danger begins. And so when the danger begins, God allows them to have King Saul. King Saul leads and then he messes up. King David comes into the picture. King David leads. He starts it off very well and then he goes down again and then he goes up again and then he goes flat. But thank God he finishes on a high note where he has what we call the city of David. I hope everyone is following me. Are you following me church members? And so David has come to the picture. He has gone. His son Solomon comes into the picture. And Solomon is he who leads with wisdom. Of course, you all know one of the achievements that Solomon has is that he has 700 wives and 300 concubines. A question that many of us will ever ask in heaven. How he managed 700 and 300 when one gives us a burden every day. I'm not saying my wife is a burden. God forbid. Somebody say amen to that. I love her. She's here. Solomon comes into the picture. He has 700. But he leads his nation. But lo and behold, because of the many wives, because of the many wives, he begins drifting his attention to the gods and the goddesses of these women. You know, they were having treaties one nation to another. And because of that, when he married this daughter of that king from another nation, she comes with her gods and her goddesses. And because of that, Solomon, who had begun so well, brought in other gods and goddesses within the Israelite nation. And it went down. Brothers and sisters, you all know what happened at the end of the day when Solomon exits the scene. Church members, you all know that the kingdom of Israel broke into how many? Two. We have the 10 kingdoms of the north and we have the two kingdoms of the what? South. And therein we have Rahoboam his son coming into the picture. And when Rahoboam comes, of course, he doesn't manage it. He says, "If my father was leading you with the fist, I'm going to lead you with a what? A finger. All the taxes, I'm going to take them up." Now when I talk about taxes, let your mind not go out there. Remain here. Are we together church members? Here we are talking about one church, one budget and one program. All right? And so when he talked about taxes, Rahobam asked the young people to advise him. Now let me tell the young people that are here present. More often than not, we have come out with great strength and we have thought that we're going to make it without the wisdom of the aged. And because of that, we come together and say that since we are generation Z, since we are generation alpha or beta or whatever other generation we say, we don't need them. I'm here to say from the book of Malachi chapter 4, it says, "For I shall bring forth the spirit of Elijah, who shall bring forth the fathers to their children, and together they shall finish the course of God." I am praying for the young people that are here today. Please don't ever despise the gray head because for the gray hair they are the ones who shall give us their wisdom. When you bring in your strength the cause of God shall be finished. And soam picks up only young people and you all know the result. Disaster because Jeroboam who was of the servant of his father decided he and so he decides to take 10 good kingdoms to the north and he says the kingdom's headquarters will be up there. And so Rhoboam remains with two tribes down there where we have the kingdom of Judah. And so Judah is this one that is led. After Reoboam comes Abijah. And after Abijah comes King Assa. And after Assa who also went up and down, up and down. Finally comes his son Jehoshaphat. Have you now listened to the history of the kings of Israel and Judah? Are we together church members? That's how Jehosh Jehoshaphat comes into the picture. And so turn with me and before I go to the book of 2 Chronicles chapter 17 because that's where the story of Jehoshaphat begins. Allow me to say it here. Brothers and sisters, there's what we call the power of handing over and transition. If the Bible has clearly given us this aspect of one king coming, another going, one king coming, another one going, one king coming, another one going, it tells us that we're not here to stay. Your president, our president told us here last week that the moment we are introduced here, we begin thinking of our exit plan. I don't want to tell you that I'm exiting soon. But all I'm saying is we prepare to hand over for the others just like fathers prepare to hand over to their children and their children to their own children. So it is we are not here to stay. Heaven is our destiny. They handed over one to another. Someday in the near future, we shall see these elders get an exit. Others will come on board. we shall this one going and others coming on board and that's how God has ordained it because his kingdom is as such and so Jehoshaphat comes into the picture go with me to the book of 2 Chronicles chapter 17 the Bible begins by saying this Bible begins by saying this then Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place and strengthened himself against Israel and he placed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim which Essa his father had taken. I like verse three. Bible says, "Now the Lord was with Jehoshaphat." Why? Because he walked in the former ways of his father David. He did not seek the BS. Church members, God with was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in whose footsteps? Now I didn't hear that. In whose footsteps? His father. Who? Who was his immediate father? Who was his immediate father? Now listen to me church members. We have our father in heaven. I pray to God even as you obey our earthly fathers, let us walk in the footsteps of our heavenly father. And so the Bible says that when he walked in the footsteps of his father David, it went well with him. Put your fingers there just so you can realize that there are instances where people begin well but their ending is not so good. Go with me to the book of put your fingers in 2 Chronicles chapter 17. Go with me to chapter 21. Chapter 20, sorry. So that you can realize that there are times it begins so well but it ends so badly. Listen to verse 32. What does the Bible say? The Bible says, "And he walked in the ways of who?" He walked in the ways of who? Asser his father. And did not turn from this side in doing what was right in the sight of God. Listen to me church members. Their instance when it begins so well. The graph goes down, it goes up, it goes down, it goes up. David is he also who began well his graph goes up then again it went down but Sheba then Nathan the prophet lifts him up again and he confesses Psalm 51 and so it continues up and down herein I want to make a post and say these brothers and sisters make no mistake whenever you have found yourself on your feet make no mistake to think that God will despise you and move away from you because when he has called you in your high moments and in your low moments he is still God Excellent is in is he indeed. He never leaves us. He never forsakes us. I know there are some of us who probably began it so well. When you hear them speaking about the camp meetings in those days, when you hear them speaking about how they could gather together, sometimes some of them tell us that they could have Bible stories, Bible sermons with their families. They began so well. But by and by, by and by, as they went by, things begin going south. Things begin going south. Rock bottom. But brothers and sisters, I'm here to encourage us. Even when things go south, we ought to go forward because even with the obstacles, we have the Lord with us in Jesus name. And so he said it lifted up and says he walked in the ways of his father. Go with me to chapter 17. Back to 17 verse four. The Bible says, "But he sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments." All right. He walked in the former ways of his father David and did sorry but sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments and not according to the acts of Israel. Brothers and sisters, there are times when sometimes we are pulled to do things in the way that is earthly. I pray to God that we remain in the way that is heavenly. Therefore, the Lord established the kingdom in his hand and all Judah gave presence to Jehoshaphat and he had riches and honor in abundance. I pray to God that the favor of God may be with us. Amen. Somebody didn't hear what I said. I pray to God that the favor of God may be here with us and that in abundance he may so fill this congregation. I hear my elder, my teacher say that we are here running in deficits. I dare say this. Let us follow the statutes of God and he shall overtake us with his blessings. Amen. Bible says in Deuteronomy 28:2 that the blessings of the Lord shall overtake us. I'm waiting for a moment when we shall have such statistics and we shall see not us running in deficits but these elders standing like Moses and saying enough is enough. Please hold it there. It says therefore the Lord established the kingdom in his hand and all Judah gave presence to the Jehoshaphat and he had riches in honor and in abundance. Then the Bible says in verse 6, "And his heart took delight in the ways of the Lord. Moreover, he removed the high places and wooden images from Judah." This is Jehoshaphat, brothers and sisters. It says he removed the high places. He removed the wooden goats. He removed all these images that were there and the Lord was with him. I am here this morning to urge every one of us. May those idols that we have engaged in, may those things that we have treasured, may we remove them and God's abundance shall follow us. Listen to me now. Let me ask church members, will it, Elura, will it be a sin if I remove the coat? Is is it okay? All right. Thank you. You are holding the court of a pastor. All right. Verse 9. Let's go to verse 9. Pas uh brethren, verse 9. The Bible says, "So they taught. He went and looked for priests, and they taught in Judah and heard the book of the law." Amen. church members, let us exalt nothing else but let us exalt the breath of God, the word of God. When this happened and all the cities of Judah were taught by the pe were taught and the people, listen to the result in verse 10, the Bible says, "And the fear of the Lord fell on how many?" On how many church members? on all the kingdoms of the land that were around Judah so that they did not make war against Jehoshaphat. Brothers and sisters, I am praying that when we shall exalt the word of God that we may have peace round and about us. Not only that, that pro prosperity and abundance may be ours. Let's go to verse 12. I want to go to chapter 20 because that's my interest. So Jehoshaphat became increasingly powerful and he built a fortress and storage cities in Judah. Brothers and sisters, I'm praying that not I but all of us here that we may increase until we build stoages in abundance here in Fifth Gong Avenue. Amen. Where we shall have a channels for missionary work. The Bible continues to say in verse 13, "And he had much property in the cities of Judah and the men of war, mighty men of valor were in Jerusalem." Please go with me quickly to the book of chapter 18. I'm just rushing through so I can go to chapter 20. In chapter 18, I'm not going to read the entire thing, but allow me to begin with verse one. Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance, and by marriage he allied himself with Ahab. That was the beginning of his downfall. Ahab is he who is the king of the north and is he who he has Jezebel. and things begin to go haywire. Let me make a pause right there brothers and sisters and say these things. Beware when prosperity comes your way because at that moment the enemy is knocking on your heart. Beware church members when you begin growing in your career. Beware members when wealth comes become begins to come your way. Beware members even when you begin to having children that are blessed. Beware because the enemy will come. Someone has said if the devil can't get you where there is evil, he'll get you where there is truth. If he can't get you where there are bad things, he will get you where there are good things. He knows how to scheme so well. And in this particular chapter, the gentleman now allies himself with who? Ahab. And they go together to go and fight Syria. And that was the beginning of a problem. I thank God because even so, in the mistake that he made to ally himself with who? Ahab. God was still with him. Church members, allow me to say this here. Never sign out a child in your homestead that has strayed. No, I didn't hear an amen to that. Never sign out a child in your home that seems to stray. This is a wellness month, mental health drugs awareness month. And I can tell you for free out here, there is a lot that is taking place. The devil has now innovated new styles of making sure that he has aimed to our children. I wished I could have a moment to give to you the clips that I have on my phone that shows you how sophisticated items have come that now don't need to look like the very obvious drugs that we used to see. They have now make made sure that they have camouflaged it that when people go around having it, you think it's just another flute they are playing. But it is drugs that they having. But I'm here to say this, brothers and sisters. Whether it be your daughter, whether it be your son, whether it be your husband, whether it be your wife, whether they have strayed, give up not on them, because there's someone who never gives up on them. And so here Jehoshaphat makes a mistake, brothers, and is almost killed. When you go almost to verse what 31, I'm running out of time, and that's why I have to avoid certain areas. So it was when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat that they said, "Please, it is the king of Israel." Therefore, they surrounded him to attack. But Jehoshaphat cried out to the Lord. When he allied himself with an enemy, he had put himself in the enemy's territory and he was almost destroyed. But thank God, the favor of God was surrounding him. Oh, you should see how sometimes our young people stray out there. Probably they have gone to strike. probably they've gone to do whatever it is or even our husbands or whoever it is our brothers and sisters when they are straying out there and they're in the enemy's camp. You think that the enemy will destroy them through accidents. You think the enemy will destroy them by pulling them down. Thank God God shields them with his favor from heaven. Why? Because he has not signed out on them. Jehoshaphat for that made a mistake. He was almost killed by the army of Assyria. But thank God they surrounded him. And the Bible says, "Therefore they surrounded him at to attack, but Jehoshaphat cried out and the Lord helped him and God diverted them from him." Church members, I'm praying every single day when you go to your workplaces, the enemy who has arrayed arrows against you that God may divert them. Church members, I'm praying that when your children are living in their estates and the enemy has arrayed arrows against them, that the Lord might divert them. Church members, I'm praying when your wives go out there and their eyes following them that the Lord might divert those eyes. I am praying church members that when the enemy allows your husbands to be in the enemy's territory and they are almost being swayed away. My prayer is when you go out may the enemy's arrows be diverted from your husbands in Jesus name. And when you all come here brothers and sisters come in be blessed in abundance go out in the cover of the Lord. Amen. The enemy and his arrows were diverted. And because of that, the Bible says this, for so verse 32, it was when the captains of chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, and they they turned back from pursuing him. Now a certain man drew a bow to random and struck the king of Israel between the joints of his armor. That's Ahab. So he said to the driver of his chariot, "Turn around and take me out of the battle, for I am wounded." The battle increased that day, and the king of Israel propped himself up in his chariots for uh facing the Assyrians, Assyrians rather, until evening. At about the time of sunset, he died. This is King Ahab. So, brothers and sisters, let me tell you this. When they are looking forward to attack you and bring you down, the God of heaven shall divert those arrows and they shall go back to the enemy, the very person that pursues you. Then the Bible says in chapters 19, I thank God I'm coming closer home. The Bible says, "Then Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, returned safely to his house in Jerusalem. And Jahu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him and say to King Jehoshaphat, "Should you help the wicked and love those who hate the Lord? Therefore, the wrath of the Lord is upon you. Nevertheless, good things are found in you. In that you have removed the wooden images from the land and are prepared your heart to seek the Lord." Listen to me church members. The prophet of the Lord comes to Jehovah Jehoshaphat and says, "Listen, because of joining together with Ahab, the Lord would have destroyed you. But because of the good that you did for the Lord, I have preserved you." Church members, I'm praying that we may have what we call the Nehemiah's prayer. You know, Nehemiah prayed like this. God, if for nothing, remember me for the good work I've done in restoring the walls of Jerusalem. My prayer is sometimes when you see things going south. My prayer is sometimes when you see things are not going your way just pray this God if for nothing at least for my being called your child deliver me and the Lord will come through for you. And this is exactly what happened. Read quickly from verse four. Listen to me. The Bible says I don't know church members. Are you following me? Are you in verse four now? Beautiful. Let's go to verse four. The Bible says, "So Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem, and he went out again among the people from Bashibba to the mountains of Ephraim and brought them back to the Lord of God of the fathers, and he set judges in the land throughout all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city." This is what I was talking about yesterday. And I thank God that the elders have implemented this that when they shall go out to this city in all our 39 prayer cells, they shall put an elder, those are the judges, every prayer cells and every prayer cell that God's people may be fed the word of God. That God's people may be reached, that God's people may be well grounded and firmly grounded in his word. Then the Bible says, "And he said to the judges, take heed to what you're doing, for you do not judge for man, but for the Lord. And I hear I'm saying my elders, take heed what you're doing, for you do not do it for these people, but you're doing it for the Lord who is with you also in the judgment. Now therefore, let the fear of the Lord, my elders, be upon you. Uh-oh, I'm going to repeat it one more time. Let the fear of the Lord be upon our elders. Amen. And he says, "Take care and do that work, for there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, no partiality or taking of bribes." Moreover, in Jerusalem for the judgment of the Lord and for the controversies, Jehoshaphat appointed some of the Levites and priests and some of the chief fathers of Israel. And when they returned to Jerusalem, he commanded them, saying, "Thus you shall take in the act in the fear of the Lord faithfully and be loyal at heart." Bible says, let me skip to verse 11. And take notice, Amariah, the chief priest is over you in all matters of the Lord, and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah. For all the king's matters also the Levites will be officials before you. Then this word was spoken to Jehoshaphat. And I'm speaking these words to myself and I want you to speak it to your own self. Listen to the words. Behave courageously and the Lord will be with you in goodness. Amen. Now could you kindly tell your neighbor that behave courageously and the Lord will be with you in goodness. No, no, no. I'm just Emma. If you sat next to a neighbor that has been troubling you shar but now we are in church. Can we say it together church members? Can you now tell your pastor please? Ah wait someone is telling me to misbehave. Tell your pastor please go together. Mhm. Amen. I pray to behave courageously that the Lord may be with me in my journey. Amen. Go with me to chapter 20. That is our chapter for the day. Go with me to chapter 20. Now listen to me church members. When God blesses you, enemies are not away from you. That is why our good elder read from the book of John chapter 16:33. The Bible records this. I have told you these things beo beforehand. That's John chapter 16:33. I have told you these things beforehand. Are you with me church members? I have told you these things what? Yes. And then he says that you may have peace in the world. There will be many what? Tribulation. But what does he say? Be of good cheer. You didn't say it properly. Be of good cheer. Church members, God is telling us beforehand, the pathway ahead of us might not be easy, but he tells us be of good cheer. He has overcome the world in our behalf. And so he's telling us whether it is a challenge for your family, he has gone before you and has overcome it. Whether there's a challenge with your children, he has gone before you, he has overcome it. Whether it's a challenge we have as a church, he has gone before us and we have overcome it. He has overcome it on our behalf. Be of good cheer. Church members, I wish the choir could have come up front again to sing the song. How cheery. You know that song, don't you? So the Bible says there that Amnon, Moab, and Mount Sea came against God's children. Let's read it together, church members. The Bible says it happened after this that the people of Moab with the people of Amnon and others with the besides the Ammonites came to battle against Jehoshaphat. For those of you who come to fight against God's children, here cometh your chapter. For those who think that you'll prevail over God's children, here cometh the word of God. Amen. And see the end result of it. Anybody make no mistake, New Life SDA church members, you are all protected by the hand of God. Fear not when you go out there in your workplaces. Fear not when you are there in your estates because when the enemy cometh against you, I want to let you know the battle does not belong to you. The battle belongs to the Lord. Yours is the victory. I am standing here seeing victorious children in the Jesus Jesus name. I am standing here seeing victorious new life members. It says Amnon comes against Jehoshaphat. David was a very careful man when it comes to ordained servants of God. He says they are not raise your hand upon the ordained of God. And every one of you are called ordained because you are a holy generation, a royal priesthood chosen of God. And so the Bible says, let's go quickly. The Bible says, I don't know why there's a tyranny of the clock against me. But we shall manage. Verse two, the Bible says, "Then some came and told Jehoshaphat, saying, a great multitude is coming against you from beyond the sea, from Syria, and they are in Hazon Tamar, which is the Enedi." Now listen to me, brothers and sisters. This is not coming for note. It is coming to test whether the mistake that Jehoshaphat had done in the immediate past in allying himself with the enemy and not depending upon God has left his heart. And so God throws and allows a test of time. Church members, when God allows tests to come our way, it's not because he has forsaken us, but because he wants to see whether we still stand on his statutes. There is a song that says this. Standing on the promises of Christ my king through his ages led. Oh glory doing what? Standing. So God allows this enemy to come to prove whether Jehoshaphat and the entire nation of Israel or Judah will be on his statutes. Listen to verse verse three. The Bible says, "And Jehoshaphat did what?" Now listen to me, brothers and sisters. What did Jehoshaphat do? He feared and set himself to seek the Lord and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. The verse starts very badly. I thank God it ends very well because in the middle the prophet comes and says, "Fear thou not." He feared. Sometimes, brothers and sisters, when our heads of departments, when our directors, when some people come against us, even telling you to work on Sabbath, what comes first in your heart? Fear. But I'm here to let you know, child of God and child of the king, fear thou not, for the Lord is with you. And so, Jehoshaphat feared, but I thank God for the latter part of the verse. The Bible says that he sought the Lord. Church members always have a tendency to seek the Lord. Have a tendency to seek the Lord in everything. A job has come your way. Seek the Lord whether it is meant for you. A vankasy has come along the way. Seek the Lord to see whether it is meant for you. You know I I don't know why I said it. I think I told the young people when we went to Arouchia that one time our chaplain in my uh my my my my institution abroad prayed to God to bless him with what? A wife. He was a young pastor. And so when the L he prayed, he tell God, please God, allow that whoever comes has hair that goes backwards and they pull it there and make sure that they dress that goes down because there has to be a pastor's wife and make sure that they're likely like this. He told God all those things. Church members when he stood to preach that day, the Lord answered his prayer. But of the features he had given God, there were how many ladies? Four. Question to the church. Had God answered his prayer by bringing all the four of them? Guys, someone is saying yes. PK, I hope this didn't come from you. This is what I want to say. Church members, there are instances when we pray to the Lord and he answers our prayer and he brings what we have asked of him. But the enemy knoweth what the desires of our hearts are and he also brings some answers to us. When you're not keen to wait upon him, you may make a mistake and go with the things that God has not given you. So wait upon the Lord. And I say again, wait upon the Lord. And so the Bible says in verse four, so Judah, sorry, where was I? Yes, verse four. So he proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. I thank God today we have a fast this afternoon. And as Elder Chuka will lead us through, I pray in this first Sabbath of this month, we may go before the Lord that he may give us the desires of our hearts. The Bible says they proclaimed a fast. So Judah, gather together to ask help from the Lord. Church members, whenever we will have any trouble, let us gather together. Gather together. There's a song that goes like this. We gather together to ask. He chastens and hastens his will to make known the wicked oppressing. See from distressing his praises his name. He forgets not his own. Church members let never allow us to drift apart. Allow us to always gather together. Don't drift apart in whichever way. Whether it is caliber or class, whether it is tribe A, tribe B. Brothers and sisters, God has made of all nations one through the blood of Christ Jesus. Gather together. Gather together. And so John and so all Judah gather together. The moment we will begin church member to split into certain groups here and there, groups here and there. In the afternoon, during the evening, we gather into groups here and there. That is the beginning of allowing the enemy to creep in and bring us down. Gather together, church members. Is somebody hearing what I'm saying? Gather together. Some people are feared because they see us gathering together in certain corners. Gathering together in certain corners and speaking of our own. I pray gather together. Gather together and speak of the Lord's own. Gather together. So the Bible says Judah gathered together to ask help from the Lord. And from all the cities of Judah, they came to seek the Lord. Then the Bible says, "Then Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem in the house of the Lord before the new court and said, listen to verse six." "Oh Lord, God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? And do you not rule over all the kingdoms of the nations? And in your hand is there not power, not might so that no one is able to withstand you?" I sing the mighty power of God that made the mountains to do what? He's reminding God of who he is and whom they are and who they belong to. Are you not God? Are you not? Verse seven, our God. Oh, listen to me. I'm sorry. I may have to use this example again. One time when I was wooing my wife when she was my girlfriend sometimes teasing her here and there. I remember her telling me that excuse me I am a daughter of the most high. I thank God she believed and she knew who she was and whom she belonged to. But I did not forget also I reminded her, excuse me, I'm also a son of the king. This is what I'm reminding New Life Church members every now and again when you come into this church and get out. Don't you ever forget who you are. You are a son and daughter of the most high. Amen. Don't ever lower your standard. Don't ever despise or despite your standard. You are a daughter of God. He says to God, "Are you not our what? our God. Then the Bible says, "Are you not our God who drove out the inhabitants of this land before you, your people Israel, and gave it to the descendants of Abraham your friend? And they dwell in it and have built you a sanctuary in it for your name." See, I want to leave it there and say this. Sometimes some of you are feared where your feet are here today. Sometimes some of you are feared. You thought you are squatters here. Some of us you have feared. You think you want to move away. I'm here today to declare to you, fear thou not God has placed you here. There are people who may not understand this, but brethren, it is Joshua who was told, "Where your feet have laid, claim it, and it will belong to you." Claim it and it will belong to you. Fear thou not. says verse 9, "If disaster comes upon us, sword, judgment, pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this temple and your presence. For your name is in this temple and cry out to you in our affliction, and you will hear and save." And now here are the people of Amno, Moab, and Mount Sea, whom you would not let Israel invade them. They came out of land of Egypt, but they turned from them and did not destroy them. Here they are. Here are our enemies rewarding us by coming to throw us out of your possession which you have given us to inherit. Church members, are you hearing that? Who has given you this place to inherit? No, you don't know what you're saying. Who has given us this place to inherit? Let no enemy come to approot you from here in Jesus name. So he says here they are and they rewarding us by coming to throw us out of your possession which you have given us to inherit. Then he prays this and says, "Oh our God, will you not judge them? For we have no power against this great multitude that is coming against us, nor do we know what to do, but our eyes are upon you." Church members, turn your eyes upon Look, look full in his and the things in the light of his glory. And church members, when the enemy comes against you, church members, when troubles assail you, church members, when the storm comes your way, fix your eyes upon the Lord and all the things of earth shall grow. That the Bible says, "Our eyes are upon you." Now all Judah with their little ones, their wives and their children stood before the Lord. This is a verse I would use for family life. But allow me to say this. New life members, all new life members with their husbands and their wives and their little children, we shall stand before the Lord. It is our desire church members to continue to stand before the Lord. So the Bible says all of them. All of them. Then the spirit of the Lord came upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah the son of Baniah the son of Giel the son of Mataniah a Levite of the sons of Asaf in the midst of the assembly. And he said listen to this blessing as I come to a conclusion. The Bible says listen all you of Judah and your inhabitants of Jerusalem and you Jehoshaphat. Thus says the Lord to you church members. Read it with me. Read it again. Read it again. Be not afraid nor dismayed. Because of this great what? Multitude. Why? Church members. Repeat it again. For the battle is whose? It is not ours, but it belongs to who? God. I wished we can say this and echo it in our hearts and minds again and again. It says, "Be not thou afraid because the battle is not ours but God's." It only says this, and this is where I picked up my sermon title. Go forward amidst the obstacles. The Bible says in verse 16, "Tomorrow, go down against them. They will surely come up by the ascent of a disease and you will find them at the end of the brook before the wilderness of Jeru. Listen to me church members. Sometimes we pray and we want God to remove the oppos obstacles. Sometimes we pray and we want him to remove our troubles or the husband has been drifting away. We want the we always want obstacles removed. Church members, someone has ever said this. If the mountain was smooth, we could not climb it. There's got to be obstacles along the way that we may climb up that mountain. I remember climbing up Mount Si with my wife. We had a challenge going up. We had to wake up at 3 in the night. As we were going up Mount Si, it reached a moment her strength was over and she had to get a camel on top until 5:45 in the morning with all the obstacles. We were there at the very helm of Mount Si and it is the sunrise that welcomed us. And we were right at the place where Moses was given the ten commandments even with the obstacles. Go forward because the Lord is with you. Are you with me church members? He said go forward. They will come but let them come. The Bible says tomorrow go forward. You will not need to fight in this battle. Position yourselves. Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. Who is with you? I thank God because there are women and mothers who will position themselves tonight in Kesha and stand still and see the salvation of the Lord for this church and beyond. Position yourself. Church members, remind your neighbor, always position yourself. Now, positioning yourself is not putting your fists up and saying positioning yourself is when trouble comes, position yourself. Positioning yourself is when trouble comes, you claim the promises. Positioning yourself is always being by the Lord's side. Allow me to go quickly. The Bible says, "And Jehoshaphat." All right. Which verse am I, church? Are we in 18? And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground. And all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did what? Bowed before the Lord, worshiping the Lord. Then the Levites of the children of Kohatites and the children of Koratites stood up to praise the Lord God of Israel with voices loud and high. So they rose early in the morning and went out in the wilderness of Teor. And as they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and said these words. And this is the pillar of Adventism. It says this here, O Israel, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem, two things. Believe in the Lord your God, and you shall be established. Number two, believe in the prophets and you shall what? Prosper. I am here today. I wished I had time, but allow me to tell the members of this church today. When we shall go back and remain in the foundation of God's word, he shall establish our thoughts. Believe in the Lord your God, and you shall be established. Church members, believe in the prophets, and you shall prosper. Prosperity comes our way when we believe in his prophets. Listen to me. When God wanted to turn things in the anti-delivian world, he sent Noah the prophet. When he wanted to have a nation that the world may see his goodness, he sent father Abraham as a prophet. When he realized that this nation is beginning to go astray, he began sending prophets to them. The major prophets and the minor prophets. Talk of Jeremiah and Elijah. Talk of Elisha and talk of Micah. Talk of all of them. Ezekiel and the others. He sent them. But when he realized that they have gone astray even by sending the prophets, he said, "I'm sending my son himself first as a prophet." So Jesus comes as a prophets. And he says, "They have killed my servants, the prophets. I'm going to come myself." And so he comes. But when he come and he ministers as a prophet, they also killed his son. Brothers and sisters, this has continued for the dispensations of the seven churches right from Ephesus to Simna, from Pagamos to Thira all the way to Sardi and Philadelphia and lastly to Laakia. They have gone all through like that. But thank God because he realizes he wants his children to have the glimpse of heaven. He has sent a prophet called Ellen G. White. Listen to me church members. Believe in her also and we shall prosper. Oh, I see the testimonies that have been written to us. Oh, I see those that we call the first five books. What do we call there's a name that we call them the conflict series. All those books, there was a time when they were in our homes. There's a time when they were being read nicely. There's a time when we are quoting them nicely. I am here to urge us back again to believing in the prophet of the end because from then we shall prosper. believe in the prophets. And guess what church members? We have been put in the pillars of these prophets. How so? There are five S's that we the Adventist church pride ourself in from this prophet and the prophets that have come before her. The first S is the sanctuary message made clear where his son Jesus now ever liveth to intercede for us as a high priest. Believe in the prophet. The second S the Sabbath. reform in our Sabbath and the blessing full shall come our way. The third S salvation. Brothers and sisters, salvation has been made simple and it has been understood differently. You know there are people today whom when they meet you they say I am saved and the Lord is the God of my life. Remind them that salvation is in three faces. We were saved. We are being saved and we are looking forward for the Lord Jesus to come and save us. It is salvation in three faces made simple. Then the fourth S is S O P the spiritual prophecy as our guide the lesser light to bring back to the Bible truth. And then the last is the second coming the very pillar of Adventist which is the climax of it all and our hope of the sojon ahead of us before Jesus comes again. Believe the Lord your God and you shall be established. Believe in the prophets and we shall prosper. Now listen to me church members. when he had consulted with the people church members the word underlined there is what I want to repeat it again the name underlined in verse 21 is what consultation there is a time here in this country this this name here this word here brought a problem there's a leader who said I was not called consult you know him I don't want to mention it but let me say this in your homes consult with your wives consult with your husbands in our church, let us leave to consult one with another. With our children, let's consult with them in the fear of the Lord. When he consulted with the people, he appointed those who should sing to the Lord, and we should praise the beauty of the holiness. As they went out before the army and was saying, "Praise the Lord, for his mercy endures forever." I like verse 22. Listen to me, church members. When they began to sing and to praise, what did the Lord do? when they began to sing. Now this is the verse that I normally use for music Sabbaths. It says do your bit just begin singing and the Lord will set his ambush. I remember one time when we were doing a crusade in some particular place and you were faced with a particular calamity of a witchcraft who was making people fear in that particular village. I don't want to go to the entire story but allow me to say one thing. It reached the moment one of our uh pioneer lay members I know he has been preaching in this church before is called Elder Gong. He told us you fellows let us sing and we shall see what will happen to that witchcraft in that house. So we started singing would you be free from the burden of sin. There's power in the what? In the blood. We found ourselves entering the house of a witchcraft whom nobody has ever entered there. And when we knocked the door, it was Elong knocking. And when we knocked that door, the woman came out with her mouth agape. Who on earth dared come in here? And before she knew it, Elder led us in saying, "Today salvation has come in this house." And as we sang that song, this woman quickly goes into her inside room and picks up some things and brings them out there. Church members, allow me to tell you that you have never smelled bad odor. We held our mouths and people who had followed us out there held their monasteries because of the things that she had prepared. But God helped us as we continued to sing. She was there as if asking Elder to open the matchbox and light these things. And Elder said, "We don't work with the enemy. Lit them yourself." We continued singing. She lit the things. That evening she joined us in the crusade and people who had not come for an entire two weeks in the third week they came we baptized 154. Sing songs and the Lord shall set ambushes for you. Sing songs and he'll bring breakthroughs for you. The Bible says when they began to sing and to praise the Lord, he set ambushes against the people of Amnon, Moab, and Mount Sea who had come against Judah. And they were what? church members defeated. Listen to me. For the people of Amnon did these things. Amnon and Moab stood up against the inhabitants of Mount Seir to utterly kill and destroy them. And they heard made an inhabitants of end of Sea. Please church members stand. Stand stand with me. Stand with me because I want to conclude. Stand with me. Listen. Amnon, Moab and Mount Sea had come against Judah and Jehoshaphat. And God had laid set ambushes against them. But listen to what now is happening. Instead of fighting Jehoshaphat, they begin to fight themselves. Please members never fight your enemies. The Lord will fight them in your behalf. They came fighting Jehoshaphat. They started fighting one another. Amnon and Moab came together and they put Mount Sia down. And guess what? That is not an end. When Mount Sia had been finished, Amnon and Moab, they hammered each other and they all ended. All that the children of Israel had to do is to stand and watch and see the spoil. But that's not the end of it. God took them down in the place called the Valley of Baraka where the Swahili have picked the name Baraka. They went to the valley of Baraka. And guess what? For four good days, they were only collecting the spoil and collecting the spoil for four good days. Church members, when your enemy will come against you, allow the Lord to fight, yours is to pick the blessings for four good days. For four good days, they picked the blessings. I am praying church members that for the next four to five years of our strategic plan be there at the valley of Baraka and we shall be counting the blessings. Count your blessings. Name them. [Music] It will surprise you indeed what the Lord has done. For a good student who's been following me, you know that I've cut down my sermon. Verse 28, the Bible says, "So they came to Jerusalem with stringed instruments and harps and trumpets to the house of the Lord." In verse 29, and the fear of God was on all kingdoms of all countries, when they heard that the Lord had fought against the enemies of Israel, church members, may the fear of the Lord remain upon this church when they shall hear that the Lord has taken up our battles. May the fear of the Lord reign upon us church members when they shall know that God's presence is here with us. You know, we have seven kinds of fear. Thank God the Lord says, "Fear thou not." You know the fear, the fears that we have. Fear number one, the fear of death. Fear number two, the fear of harm. Fear number three, the fear of the unknown. Fear number four, the fear of social rejection. Fear number five, the fear of God's wrath. Fear number six, the fear of physical suffering. And finally, fear number seven, the fear of losing God's favor. But guess what? For 365 days the Lord says, "Fear thou not for I am with you." Church members, bow your heads with me and close your eyes. What is this that has belittled you? What is this that has despised you? What is this that has you've been struggling with either in your workplace or in your homes? What is this that has made you have so much fear? Today through the life of Jehoshaphat, we have been reminded, fear thou not. Go forward amidst the tribulations that will come our way. The Lord has said, "I have told you these things beforehand that you may have peace in the world. There shall be lots of tribulation, but I have overcome the world." I pray to God that you may know that you're victorious even before you enter into this battle because the battle is not yours. The battle belongs to the Lord. Allow me to ask one person to come here to pray with me. He who thinks that they have heard a challenge of drug addiction either in their home states from one member, please come that we may pray together. Someone is in not only drug addiction, someone is in some chains of some kind troubled by your directors and department heads or whatever it is today victory belongs to you. Come that we may pray together. There are those who have wanted their families together. There are those who have asked that the Lord may come through for them in many ways and you desire for victory. Today I'm here to announce the Lord shall set an ambush against your enemies. Come, come. I'm going to ask Pastor Chanda to come kindly and uh help me to pray with this line. Softly and tender Jesus is calling calling for you and for me. It's beautiful. He is great in watching for for you and for me. Lord, come [Music] home. Come home. Ye who are weary, come home. [Music] Oh, tenderly Jesus is calling calling. [Music] Let's go to the second stance. People keep streaming in. for me. He's waiting and watching, watching for you and for me. Come home. Come home. He who are weary come [Music] home unestly, tenderly. Jesus is calling calling. Oh s come. Thank you very much. Thank you. And I'm praying for those of you who stood out there resume our worships in our homes and God shall establish us. Amen. I pray that you may return back the prophet of the Lord back in your homes and you shall prosper. Amen. Let us read the spirit of prophecy books and be grounded in them. And let us have the faith that God has handed over to us by the saints and we shall prosper as a church. Let us all bow our heads, close our eyes. My pastor will pray for this team that has come here. I'll pray for you and say the benediction. For those of you who are up front, please kneel. It's knee. Shall we pray? Oh, Father and God, we come here in humility, in your presence, where we've been reminded that in your presence is fullness of joy. We came here with our cares. We came here with our struggles. Lord, we thank you for the message that has reminded that we can be positioned and to see your salvation. We have positioned ourself while kneeling down. We have positioned ourselves while standing and some while seated because we have realized that this this kind of battle is not ours. It's yours. Father, we've come here with our fears, knowing that Lord, by faith you can turn everything around. We want to believe in you, God, because we've been reminded that you can establish us, Lord. We've come here to believe in the prophets because you know we can find prosperity in our lives. Lord, Father, whatever we have come here waiting to engage and to receive from you, we believe it has been granted. Father, we have come here standing the mids of prayer, not just for ourselves, but on behalf of our brothers and sisters. It's been years and seasons of doubting your men's servants. It's been seasons of heartbreaks and failures wondering if we can anything good can come out of this. But Lord, we thank you because we we are coming back to you. We've returned to you from our addictions. We've returned to you from all kinds of sin. trusting and believing Lord you can reverse everything around and father because you've registered your presence in this place and even in the virtual space I plead with you that Lord let your children be set free that as we stand on behalf of our brothers who've struggled with alcoholism father they will never love the test again as we stand on behalf of our sibling or even ourselves who are in addictions of drug will be set free through this month Lord Lord, I pray for those who struggling with also mental illness. Lord, that this month may not just be a reminder, but it can be also a a chance that all of us may be set free. Because we've been reminded again through the verses that in the book of John 16:33 that yes, we can be of good cheer because you've overcome the world. What is this thing that your children have been expecting today? What is this thing that Lord, they've been holding on? We surrender at your cross at your feet. Lord, the Lord set us free. Father, we've been reminded the Lord. Yes. As your people went around waiting day to receive the spoils in the place of blessings, they returned back in joy. We are convinced that at the end of this experience, you will return in joy because of what you have done and what you're about to do. Father, I want to pray for this congregation. You've sent servants to serve in this place several times. But today again, you've led us with the three new pastors and your man's servant has spoken. He's broken the bread the way you wanted it to be done. Lord, I pray that Lord, you may favor him. That his presence in this place may bring around a turn around this church. That new life may be a place of worship. The Lord will no longer live as the old times. The Lord will include you and have you be heard and be known. That your message and the word will be spoken from this pullpit that will bring around a turnaround on everyone who will watch from various places. Everyone who will walk in here will discover that Lord only your presence is here. So bless your man's servant with his family that the message you've set for him and the ministry you've put in his life from this season will help him walk day by day. That he doesn't need to fear because God, you're with him. Amen. Thank you for helping him stand firm in your word. For the reminder that we need to go back to the early church where they sought your word in truth. Father, I ask you that Lord, may you be glorified in this place. I just want to ask also, Lord, that you may remember your children here. Some have come here struggling with finances, wondering where they'll get food, their finances. Some have come here waiting for something for so long, maybe unemployment, wondering whether God, you're listening. But I thank you through the message of today that Lord you you are working out from seasons. You're working through generations that as the Israelites faced difficulties they forgot about you but father you never gave up on them because eventually had their prayers we are trusting you Lord that you'll open even wombs Lord for those who've been waiting for probably a child Lord you'll favor them today and they'll testify of how you are able to grant them children. And for those who were waiting for spouse Lord you'll give them the right spouse that will honor you. For those who are waiting for breakthrough in every area of the life Lord they will believe that God you did it today. And father whatever burden your children have brought today in this place and those who are standing there father visit with us. And as we continue to even engage through the days of worship, Father, may it be say the Lord we drew you closer to you. May be say the Lord you want us for you. May it be said that this place brought a turnar around. Thank you for your man's servant once again and those who minister today. May the worship that was granted today since morning not be in vain but it may work out something in our hearts and we may leave here with victory. We pray the Lord you've heard an answer in Jesus name. Amen. Be not dismayed. Whatever be tied, God will take care 

==================================================

TIMESTAMPED TRANSCRIPT:
[0.0s] [Music]
[11.1s] We bless the name of the father, the
[13.4s] son, and the holy spirit. Amen. Happy
[17.8s] Sabbath everyone. Happy Sabbath again.
[21.1s] Happy. Let me be from this side. Happy
[23.0s] Sabbath. Happy day. Happy Sabbath again.
[26.2s] Happy day. And happy Sabbath this side.
[28.9s] Happy.
[31.1s] This one's the eight wabs. I love that.
[33.2s] All right, this side. Happy Sabbath.
[35.2s] Happy. All right. All the bases are on
[37.8s] this side. Happy Sabbath. Happy. All our
[41.8s] children are this side. Church members,
[43.7s] happy Sabbath. Happy day. And happy day.
[47.3s] Happy Sabbath. Isn't it good that we are
[49.6s] in God's house? Yes, it is. I must
[54.3s] confess all the choirs have sung
[57.8s] powerfully.
[60.0s] Who who can testify with me that they
[61.9s] have sung powerfully?
[64.0s] Yes. Es God bless
[66.8s] you. Somebody should not say that I'm
[69.1s] the one who started
[70.8s] it. They just
[73.4s] started and bless that group.
[76.6s] Redemption. God bless you. One of the
[79.4s] things I normally say is that whenever
[82.1s] there's a backup, the only greatest test
[85.0s] is when stimmer
[86.8s] in that is when we get to know whether
[89.1s] the choir is a choir or they are
[90.7s] depending on the backup. But redemption,
[93.8s] they hit the mark and may the lord bless
[95.8s] your redemption.
[97.7s] The scripture in the book of uh proverbs
[101.1s] says that uh for the virtuous woman they
[103.9s] say that you are one of the greatest but
[108.3s] you all daughters are good but you the
[111.0s] virtuous woman have done
[113.8s] what? Surpassed them all. And may I say
[117.4s] the choir you have surpassed them all.
[124.2s] I wished that that could have been a
[125.8s] sermon and it ends at that. How
[129.2s] excellent, kind is his name. And we're
[133.0s] grateful because that's the emphasis of
[135.1s] the sermon today. I only wonder every
[139.4s] day, every time, why I see what I see in
[144.2s] choirs. And I only pray that the
[146.6s] repetition of the same is not seen in
[149.0s] the kingdom to come. Somebody asked me
[151.6s] why. Why do we always have 28 women and
[156.6s] 14
[158.0s] men? In all choirs, it must be men, a
[161.8s] few, and ladies are what? Many. My only
[165.7s] prayer that that is not repeated in
[167.3s] heaven.
[169.0s] And so because of that, I'm going to
[171.6s] make a very serious call today that we
[174.8s] may have people of the likes of Elder
[177.0s] Rotic and Omura and Shimron and Elder
[180.8s] the others that they may join the choir.
[184.3s] Amen. All in favor say I. I. Elura,
[188.6s] don't say contra. All
[192.4s] right. I am going to also request my
[195.4s] elder mog to join and sing his beautiful
[198.8s] tenner in the choir and when they will
[203.4s] join be sure I will join
[207.1s] and
[209.2s] so let me request all of us to be
[211.7s] upstanding
[213.2s] kindly let's all be upstanding
[228.2s] I urge you church
[231.2s] members to
[233.0s] resume the purity of the word of God in
[236.3s] your homes. Amen. I urge you church
[239.7s] members to uphold the statitudes of God
[243.5s] in this church and in wherever place you
[245.9s] shall be. And I urge my leaders that
[249.7s] going forward this Bible remains here
[251.8s] all times to tell the entire world who
[255.1s] come to Fifth Gong Avenue New Life that
[257.6s] we treasure the word of God. Amen. And
[260.2s] my prayer is that every place where we
[262.3s] are may we remain in the foundation of
[265.1s] the word. Please repeat after me
[267.5s] everyone. I'm humbled to be a part of
[270.2s] God's family. I'm humbled to be a part
[273.0s] of Please say it like you mean it.
[278.6s] The hope of a new life in Christ Jesus.
[281.5s] The hope of a new life in Christ. I hold
[284.5s] on to Bible truth. I hold on to Bible
[287.5s] truth. The breath of God. The breath of
[290.3s] God to sanctify me. sanctify me. I grow
[293.8s] daily to perfection.
[295.9s] [Music]
[297.0s] For I have a heaven to gain. For I have
[299.8s] a heaven to and a hell to shine. and a
[302.6s] hell to finally hold your hands
[308.5s] together. Reals repeat these words. Let
[311.9s] us star love.
[315.8s] Can we repeat that one more time? Let us
[317.3s] star love. Let us love one with another.
[321.2s] One with another. Match them all. Match
[323.9s] them all. As the day approaches, as the
[326.4s] day approaches, let's bow our heads as
[328.2s] we pray
[329.5s] together.
[334.2s] Father in the stillness of this
[337.6s] moment, this is your
[340.8s] time. Glorify your
[343.5s] son because you've promised that when he
[345.7s] shall be lifted up, he shall draw all
[347.2s] men to
[348.5s] himself. and through the power of the
[350.6s] Holy Spirit speak through this feeble
[353.4s] being. And my father, may the words that
[355.7s] shall be shared here this afternoon be
[358.2s] embedded in the hearts of your children
[360.5s] to the glory and honor of your name. You
[364.2s] have promised that I shall diminish as
[366.2s] Christ is be exalted. May this be the
[369.1s] sharity of this message this afternoon.
[371.4s] For these things we ask in Jesus name.
[373.0s] And let God's children say amen. Amen.
[375.4s] Please be seated.
[385.9s] I'd like everyone to hold their Bibles,
[387.5s] please, because I'm going to take you
[388.7s] through a challenge of studying the word
[392.2s] this afternoon. I want to welcome
[393.7s] everyone of you
[396.3s] to transacting some business, what we
[399.0s] call the church business meeting. We'll
[401.3s] be here at 2. I'll be leading through a
[403.4s] devotion of a whole book in the Bible
[406.0s] for about 20 minutes before we engage in
[408.6s] the church business meeting. How many
[410.1s] are promising to be there? Let me see by
[412.2s] show of hands. I'm going to do a whole
[413.4s] book of the Bible for about 20 to 30
[415.1s] minutes as we engage in the church
[417.3s] business this afternoon. And so I want
[418.7s] to welcome you to that. But at this
[420.5s] moment, allow me for the interest of
[423.0s] time to take you to the book of 2
[425.0s] Chronicles. Church, which book did I
[426.6s] say?
[428.2s] Now, if you have your Bibles with you,
[429.5s] please open them. Open the Bibles with
[431.3s] you because I'm going to take you
[433.2s] through a story of a gentleman that is
[435.4s] called King Jehoshaphat. Can you repeat
[437.8s] that one more time, church?
[441.7s] His story starts from chapter 17. But
[444.9s] our emphasis is going to be in chapter
[447.9s] 20. Now, for you to understand how
[450.8s] Jehoshaphat comes into the picture, as
[452.5s] you hold your Bibles with you, because
[453.9s] I'm going to take you through the Bible.
[456.0s] As you hold your Bibles, just listen to
[457.6s] me. The Bible says that God wants to
[460.3s] institute a nation from whence the world
[462.6s] can see his goodness and because of that
[465.0s] he starts which nation called Israel. Of
[468.1s] course it was his desire to lead this
[470.6s] nation in what we call theocracy but
[473.3s] they didn't love it and they went
[475.3s] straight to democracy because they
[477.0s] wanted to look like other nations.
[478.8s] Church members that's where the danger
[480.8s] begins. The danger begins when we want
[483.1s] to look like others. The danger begins
[485.1s] when this church wants to ape the
[486.6s] others. The danger begins when children
[488.6s] begin eating the food of neighbors and
[490.7s] urging them to always love it rather
[492.8s] than their mothers. That's where the
[494.3s] danger begins. And so when the danger
[495.9s] begins, God allows them to have King
[497.5s] Saul. King Saul leads and then he messes
[500.7s] up. King David comes into the picture.
[503.0s] King David leads. He starts it off very
[505.2s] well and then he goes down again and
[507.6s] then he goes up again and then he goes
[509.6s] flat. But thank God he finishes on a
[511.8s] high note where he has what we call the
[514.2s] city of David. I hope everyone is
[515.9s] following me. Are you following me
[516.9s] church members? And so David has come to
[518.8s] the picture. He has gone. His son
[520.6s] Solomon comes into the picture. And
[523.1s] Solomon is he who leads with wisdom. Of
[525.8s] course, you all know one of the
[527.1s] achievements that Solomon has is that he
[528.7s] has 700 wives and 300 concubines. A
[530.9s] question that many of us will ever ask
[533.0s] in heaven. How he managed 700 and 300
[536.6s] when one gives us a burden every day.
[538.3s] I'm not saying my wife is a burden. God
[539.8s] forbid. Somebody say amen to that. I
[542.3s] love her. She's here. Solomon comes into
[544.2s] the picture. He has 700. But he leads
[546.5s] his nation. But lo and behold, because
[549.0s] of the many wives, because of the many
[551.0s] wives, he begins drifting his attention
[553.5s] to the gods and the goddesses of these
[555.2s] women. You know, they were having
[556.2s] treaties one nation to another. And
[558.2s] because of that, when he married this
[560.0s] daughter of that king from another
[561.4s] nation, she comes with her gods and her
[563.8s] goddesses. And because of that, Solomon,
[566.4s] who had begun so well, brought in other
[568.4s] gods and goddesses within the Israelite
[570.5s] nation. And it went down. Brothers and
[572.6s] sisters, you all know what happened at
[574.2s] the end of the day when Solomon exits
[576.6s] the scene. Church members, you all know
[578.6s] that the kingdom of Israel broke into
[580.5s] how many? Two. We have the 10 kingdoms
[582.6s] of the north and we have the two
[584.4s] kingdoms of the what? South. And therein
[587.4s] we have Rahoboam his son coming into the
[589.4s] picture. And when Rahoboam comes, of
[592.2s] course, he doesn't manage it. He says,
[594.0s] "If my father was leading you with the
[596.7s] fist, I'm going to lead you with a what?
[598.3s] A finger. All the taxes, I'm going to
[600.4s] take them up." Now when I talk about
[602.2s] taxes, let your mind not go out there.
[604.2s] Remain here. Are we together church
[606.4s] members? Here we are talking about one
[608.4s] church, one budget and one program. All
[611.0s] right? And so when he talked about
[612.3s] taxes, Rahobam asked the young people to
[615.5s] advise him. Now let me tell the young
[617.4s] people that are here present. More often
[619.3s] than not, we have come out with great
[621.0s] strength and we have thought that we're
[622.1s] going to make it without the wisdom of
[625.2s] the aged. And because of that, we come
[627.3s] together and say that since we are
[629.1s] generation Z, since we are generation
[631.1s] alpha or beta or whatever other
[633.0s] generation we say, we don't need them.
[634.9s] I'm here to say from the book of Malachi
[636.7s] chapter 4, it says, "For I shall bring
[639.0s] forth the spirit of Elijah, who shall
[641.0s] bring forth the fathers to their
[642.8s] children, and together they shall finish
[645.0s] the course of God." I am praying for the
[647.2s] young people that are here today. Please
[648.9s] don't ever despise the gray head because
[651.4s] for the gray hair they are the ones who
[653.7s] shall give us their wisdom. When you
[655.4s] bring in your strength the cause of God
[657.2s] shall be finished. And soam picks up
[660.3s] only young people and you all know the
[662.3s] result.
[663.3s] Disaster because Jeroboam who was of the
[666.6s] servant of his father decided he and so
[671.7s] he decides to take 10 good kingdoms to
[673.8s] the north and he says the kingdom's
[675.7s] headquarters will be up there. And so
[677.9s] Rhoboam remains with two tribes down
[681.1s] there where we have the kingdom of
[682.6s] Judah. And so Judah is this one that is
[685.5s] led. After Reoboam comes Abijah. And
[689.2s] after Abijah comes King Assa. And after
[692.8s] Assa who also went up and down, up and
[696.1s] down. Finally comes his son Jehoshaphat.
[700.1s] Have you now listened to the history of
[701.8s] the kings of Israel and Judah? Are we
[703.8s] together church members? That's how
[705.6s] Jehosh Jehoshaphat comes into the
[707.2s] picture. And so turn with me and before
[709.5s] I go to the book of 2 Chronicles chapter
[711.8s] 17 because that's where the story of
[713.6s] Jehoshaphat begins. Allow me to say it
[716.0s] here. Brothers and sisters, there's what
[717.4s] we call the power of handing over and
[720.8s] transition. If the Bible has clearly
[723.6s] given us this aspect of one king coming,
[725.8s] another going, one king coming, another
[727.8s] one going, one king coming, another one
[729.7s] going, it tells us that we're not here
[732.2s] to stay. Your president, our president
[734.6s] told us here last week that the moment
[736.1s] we are introduced here, we begin
[738.4s] thinking of our exit plan. I don't want
[740.6s] to tell you that I'm exiting soon. But
[743.4s] all I'm saying is we prepare to hand
[745.4s] over for the others just like fathers
[747.3s] prepare to hand over to their children
[748.6s] and their children to their own
[750.2s] children. So it is we are not here to
[752.7s] stay. Heaven is our destiny. They handed
[755.1s] over one to another. Someday in the near
[757.4s] future, we shall see these elders get an
[759.3s] exit. Others will come on board. we
[761.1s] shall this one going and others coming
[763.1s] on board and that's how God has ordained
[765.9s] it because his kingdom is as such and so
[768.8s] Jehoshaphat comes into the picture go
[770.6s] with me to the book of 2 Chronicles
[772.2s] chapter
[773.4s] 17 the Bible begins by saying
[776.4s] this Bible begins by saying this then
[780.2s] Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place
[783.0s] and strengthened himself against Israel
[786.5s] and he placed troops in all the
[788.6s] fortified cities of Judah and set
[790.5s] garrisons in the land of Judah and in
[792.4s] the cities of Ephraim which Essa his
[795.2s] father had taken. I like verse three.
[797.3s] Bible says, "Now the Lord was with
[801.0s] Jehoshaphat." Why? Because he walked in
[804.6s] the former ways of his father David. He
[808.4s] did not seek the BS. Church members, God
[812.5s] with was with Jehoshaphat because he
[815.4s] walked in whose
[817.5s] footsteps? Now I didn't hear that. In
[819.6s] whose footsteps?
[821.7s] His father. Who? Who was his immediate
[825.2s] father? Who was his immediate father?
[828.2s] Now listen to me church members. We have
[830.7s] our father in heaven. I pray to God even
[833.8s] as you obey our earthly fathers, let us
[836.1s] walk in the footsteps of our heavenly
[837.9s] father. And so the Bible says that when
[840.3s] he walked in the footsteps of his father
[843.3s] David, it went well with him. Put your
[845.9s] fingers there just so you can realize
[847.9s] that there are instances where people
[849.8s] begin well but their ending is not so
[852.1s] good. Go with me to the book of put your
[854.0s] fingers in 2 Chronicles chapter 17. Go
[856.0s] with me to chapter
[859.4s] 21. Chapter 20,
[864.3s] sorry. So that you can realize that
[866.4s] there are times it begins so well but it
[868.4s] ends so
[870.1s] badly. Listen to verse 32. What does the
[874.1s] Bible say? The Bible says, "And he
[876.2s] walked in the ways of
[879.9s] who?" He walked in the ways of
[884.0s] who? Asser his father. And did not turn
[887.8s] from this side in doing what was right
[890.5s] in the sight of God. Listen to me church
[892.6s] members. Their instance when it begins
[896.2s] so well. The graph goes down, it goes
[899.2s] up, it goes down, it goes up. David is
[902.7s] he also who began well his graph goes up
[905.8s] then again it went down but Sheba then
[908.8s] Nathan the prophet lifts him up again
[910.5s] and he confesses Psalm 51 and so it
[912.8s] continues up and down herein I want to
[915.0s] make a post and say these brothers and
[916.6s] sisters make no mistake whenever you
[919.4s] have found yourself on your feet make no
[921.8s] mistake to think that God will despise
[923.8s] you and move away from you because when
[926.4s] he has called you in your high moments
[928.6s] and in your low moments he is still God
[931.6s] Excellent is in is he indeed. He never
[934.5s] leaves us. He never forsakes us. I know
[936.6s] there are some of us who probably began
[938.9s] it so well. When you hear them speaking
[941.3s] about the camp meetings in those days,
[943.4s] when you hear them speaking about how
[944.9s] they could gather together, sometimes
[946.6s] some of them tell us that they could
[947.8s] have Bible stories, Bible sermons with
[950.2s] their families. They began so well. But
[952.4s] by and by, by and by, as they went by,
[955.7s] things begin going south. Things begin
[957.7s] going south. Rock bottom. But brothers
[960.0s] and sisters, I'm here to encourage us.
[962.1s] Even when things go south, we ought to
[964.2s] go forward because even with the
[966.2s] obstacles, we have the Lord with us in
[968.0s] Jesus name. And so he said it lifted up
[971.3s] and says he walked in the ways of his
[973.6s] father. Go with me to chapter 17. Back
[975.2s] to 17 verse four. The Bible says, "But
[978.0s] he sought the God of his father and
[980.6s] walked in his
[983.2s] commandments." All right. He walked in
[985.1s] the former ways of his father David and
[987.0s] did sorry but sought the God of his
[989.0s] father and walked in his commandments
[990.5s] and not according to the acts of Israel.
[993.2s] Brothers and sisters, there are times
[994.5s] when sometimes we are pulled to do
[996.4s] things in the way that is earthly. I
[998.6s] pray to God that we remain in the way
[1000.1s] that is heavenly. Therefore, the Lord
[1002.2s] established the kingdom in his hand and
[1005.4s] all Judah gave presence to Jehoshaphat
[1008.1s] and he had riches and honor in
[1009.8s] abundance. I pray to God that the favor
[1012.5s] of God may be with us. Amen. Somebody
[1015.4s] didn't hear what I said. I pray to God
[1017.4s] that the favor of God may be here with
[1019.8s] us and that in abundance he may so fill
[1023.4s] this congregation. I hear my elder, my
[1025.6s] teacher say that we are here running in
[1027.9s] deficits. I dare say this. Let us follow
[1030.9s] the statutes of God and he shall
[1033.4s] overtake us with his blessings. Amen.
[1035.8s] Bible says in Deuteronomy
[1038.6s] 28:2 that the blessings of the Lord
[1041.2s] shall overtake us. I'm waiting for a
[1043.9s] moment when we shall have such
[1045.1s] statistics and we shall see not us
[1047.4s] running in deficits but these elders
[1049.6s] standing like Moses and saying enough is
[1052.4s] enough. Please hold it there. It says
[1055.8s] therefore the Lord established the
[1057.2s] kingdom in his hand and all Judah gave
[1059.3s] presence to the Jehoshaphat and he had
[1061.2s] riches in honor and in abundance. Then
[1063.4s] the Bible says in verse 6, "And his
[1065.4s] heart took delight in the ways of the
[1067.0s] Lord. Moreover, he removed the high
[1069.0s] places and wooden images from Judah."
[1071.0s] This is Jehoshaphat, brothers and
[1072.3s] sisters. It says he removed the high
[1075.1s] places. He removed the wooden goats. He
[1078.2s] removed all these images that were there
[1080.6s] and the Lord was with him. I am here
[1083.2s] this morning to urge every one of us.
[1086.5s] May those idols that we have engaged in,
[1089.5s] may those things that we have treasured,
[1091.6s] may we remove them and God's abundance
[1094.1s] shall follow us. Listen to me now. Let
[1097.2s] me ask church members, will it, Elura,
[1099.6s] will it be a sin if I remove the
[1102.8s] coat? Is is it okay? All right. Thank
[1105.4s] you.
[1116.9s] You are holding the court of a
[1120.3s] pastor. All
[1125.6s] right. Verse 9. Let's go to verse 9. Pas
[1128.4s] uh brethren, verse 9. The Bible says,
[1131.1s] "So they taught. He went and looked for
[1134.2s] priests, and they taught in Judah and
[1138.0s] heard the book of the law." Amen. church
[1142.2s] members, let us exalt nothing else but
[1145.6s] let us exalt the breath of God, the word
[1148.6s] of God. When this happened and all the
[1152.2s] cities of Judah were taught by the pe
[1154.6s] were taught and the people, listen to
[1156.2s] the result in verse 10, the Bible says,
[1159.2s] "And the fear of the Lord fell on how
[1162.7s] many?" On how many church members? on
[1166.5s] all the kingdoms of the land that were
[1169.6s] around Judah so that they did not make
[1171.7s] war against Jehoshaphat. Brothers and
[1173.4s] sisters, I am praying that when we shall
[1175.4s] exalt the word of God that we may have
[1177.7s] peace round and about us. Not only that,
[1180.3s] that pro prosperity and abundance may be
[1182.3s] ours. Let's go to verse 12. I want to go
[1184.3s] to chapter 20 because that's my
[1185.8s] interest. So Jehoshaphat became
[1188.4s] increasingly powerful and he built a
[1191.6s] fortress and storage cities in Judah.
[1194.6s] Brothers and sisters, I'm praying that
[1196.2s] not I but all of us here that we may
[1200.0s] increase until we build stoages in
[1204.8s] abundance here in Fifth Gong Avenue.
[1208.1s] Amen. Where we shall have a channels for
[1210.4s] missionary work. The Bible continues to
[1212.1s] say in verse 13, "And he had much
[1213.8s] property in the cities of Judah and the
[1215.8s] men of war, mighty men of valor were in
[1219.2s] Jerusalem." Please go with me quickly to
[1221.4s] the book of chapter 18. I'm just rushing
[1223.5s] through so I can go to chapter 20. In
[1225.8s] chapter 18, I'm not going to read the
[1227.4s] entire thing, but allow me to begin with
[1230.6s] verse one. Jehoshaphat had riches and
[1233.9s] honor in
[1236.0s] abundance, and by marriage he allied
[1239.6s] himself with
[1241.5s] Ahab. That was the beginning of his
[1244.9s] downfall. Ahab is he who is the king of
[1247.8s] the north and is he who he has Jezebel.
[1251.7s] and things begin to go haywire. Let me
[1254.4s] make a pause right there brothers and
[1255.8s] sisters and say these things. Beware
[1259.0s] when prosperity comes your way because
[1261.8s] at that moment the enemy is knocking on
[1264.0s] your heart. Beware church members when
[1266.6s] you begin growing in your career. Beware
[1268.8s] members when wealth comes become begins
[1270.9s] to come your way. Beware members even
[1272.8s] when you begin to having children that
[1274.5s] are blessed. Beware because the enemy
[1276.3s] will come. Someone has said if the devil
[1278.6s] can't get you where there is evil, he'll
[1280.6s] get you where there is truth. If he
[1283.0s] can't get you where there are bad
[1284.3s] things, he will get you where there are
[1285.8s] good things. He knows how to scheme so
[1288.0s] well. And in this particular chapter,
[1289.9s] the gentleman now allies himself with
[1292.6s] who? Ahab. And they go together to go
[1295.7s] and fight Syria. And that was the
[1297.8s] beginning of a problem. I thank God
[1299.8s] because even so, in the mistake that he
[1302.6s] made to ally himself with who? Ahab. God
[1306.3s] was still with him. Church members,
[1309.1s] allow me to say this here. Never sign
[1312.2s] out a child in your homestead that has
[1315.5s] strayed. No, I didn't hear an amen to
[1318.0s] that. Never sign out a child in your
[1321.7s] home that seems to stray.
[1324.5s] This is a wellness month, mental health
[1327.9s] drugs awareness month. And I can tell
[1330.1s] you for free out here, there is a lot
[1332.9s] that is taking place. The devil has now
[1336.0s] innovated new styles of making sure that
[1338.5s] he has aimed to our children. I wished I
[1340.9s] could have a moment to give to you the
[1342.3s] clips that I have on my phone that shows
[1344.4s] you how sophisticated items have come
[1346.8s] that now don't need to look like the
[1348.8s] very obvious drugs that we used to see.
[1350.6s] They have now make made sure that they
[1353.4s] have camouflaged it that when people go
[1356.0s] around having it, you think it's just
[1357.5s] another flute they are playing. But it
[1359.3s] is drugs that they having. But I'm here
[1361.4s] to say this, brothers and sisters.
[1363.4s] Whether it be your daughter, whether it
[1365.2s] be your son, whether it be your husband,
[1367.3s] whether it be your wife, whether they
[1369.0s] have strayed, give up not on them,
[1371.6s] because there's someone who never gives
[1373.0s] up on them. And so here Jehoshaphat
[1375.8s] makes a mistake, brothers, and is almost
[1378.2s] killed. When you go almost to verse what
[1382.0s] 31, I'm running out of time, and that's
[1384.8s] why I have to avoid certain areas. So it
[1388.0s] was when the captains of the chariots
[1389.9s] saw Jehoshaphat that they said, "Please,
[1392.1s] it is the king of Israel." Therefore,
[1393.7s] they surrounded him to attack. But
[1395.6s] Jehoshaphat cried out to the Lord. When
[1397.5s] he allied himself with an enemy, he had
[1401.0s] put himself in the enemy's territory and
[1403.0s] he was almost destroyed. But thank God,
[1405.8s] the favor of God was surrounding him.
[1408.5s] Oh, you should see how sometimes our
[1410.2s] young people stray out there. Probably
[1412.1s] they have gone to strike. probably
[1413.7s] they've gone to do whatever it is or
[1415.4s] even our husbands or whoever it is our
[1417.1s] brothers and sisters when they are
[1418.6s] straying out there and they're in the
[1420.2s] enemy's camp. You think that the enemy
[1422.5s] will destroy them through accidents. You
[1424.2s] think the enemy will destroy them by
[1425.7s] pulling them down. Thank God God shields
[1428.4s] them with his favor from heaven. Why?
[1430.9s] Because he has not signed out on them.
[1432.5s] Jehoshaphat for that made a mistake. He
[1434.2s] was almost killed by the army of
[1435.9s] Assyria. But thank God they surrounded
[1438.7s] him. And the Bible says, "Therefore they
[1441.4s] surrounded him at to attack, but
[1443.8s] Jehoshaphat cried out and the Lord
[1446.2s] helped him and God diverted them from
[1449.8s] him." Church members, I'm praying every
[1452.0s] single day when you go to your
[1453.8s] workplaces, the enemy who has arrayed
[1456.9s] arrows against you that God may divert
[1459.8s] them. Church members, I'm praying that
[1462.2s] when your children are living in their
[1463.6s] estates and the enemy has arrayed arrows
[1466.5s] against them, that the Lord might divert
[1468.6s] them. Church members, I'm praying when
[1470.9s] your wives go out there and their eyes
[1473.6s] following them that the Lord might
[1475.7s] divert those eyes. I am praying church
[1478.6s] members that when the enemy allows your
[1480.6s] husbands to be in the enemy's territory
[1483.4s] and they are almost being swayed away.
[1486.0s] My prayer is when you go out may the
[1488.4s] enemy's arrows be diverted from your
[1490.1s] husbands in Jesus name. And when you all
[1492.4s] come here brothers and sisters come in
[1494.9s] be blessed in abundance go out in the
[1497.4s] cover of the Lord. Amen. The enemy and
[1500.8s] his arrows were diverted. And because of
[1503.4s] that, the Bible says
[1505.2s] this, for so verse 32, it was when the
[1508.9s] captains of chariots saw that it was not
[1511.0s] the king of Israel, and they they turned
[1512.5s] back from pursuing him. Now a certain
[1514.6s] man drew a bow to random and struck the
[1517.2s] king of Israel between the joints of his
[1519.0s] armor. That's Ahab. So he said to the
[1520.7s] driver of his chariot, "Turn around and
[1522.6s] take me out of the battle, for I am
[1524.2s] wounded." The battle increased that day,
[1525.9s] and the king of Israel propped himself
[1527.5s] up in his chariots for uh facing the
[1529.8s] Assyrians, Assyrians rather, until
[1532.0s] evening. At about the time of sunset, he
[1534.2s] died. This is King Ahab. So, brothers
[1536.3s] and sisters, let me tell you this. When
[1538.5s] they are looking forward to attack you
[1540.3s] and bring you down, the God of heaven
[1542.8s] shall divert those arrows and they shall
[1544.9s] go back to the enemy, the very person
[1547.0s] that pursues you. Then the Bible says in
[1549.5s] chapters 19, I thank God I'm coming
[1552.3s] closer home. The Bible says, "Then
[1555.8s] Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, returned
[1558.6s] safely to his house in Jerusalem. And
[1561.0s] Jahu the son of Hanani the seer went out
[1563.5s] to meet him and say to King Jehoshaphat,
[1565.7s] "Should you help the wicked and love
[1568.4s] those who hate the Lord? Therefore, the
[1570.7s] wrath of the Lord is upon you.
[1574.2s] Nevertheless, good things are found in
[1576.8s] you. In that you have removed the wooden
[1579.6s] images from the land and are prepared
[1581.7s] your heart to seek the Lord." Listen to
[1583.4s] me church members. The prophet of the
[1585.4s] Lord comes to Jehovah Jehoshaphat and
[1587.4s] says, "Listen, because of joining
[1589.9s] together with Ahab, the Lord would have
[1592.4s] destroyed you. But because of the good
[1594.6s] that you did for the Lord, I have
[1596.9s] preserved you." Church members, I'm
[1598.8s] praying that we may have what we call
[1599.9s] the Nehemiah's prayer. You know,
[1601.6s] Nehemiah prayed like this. God, if for
[1604.5s] nothing, remember me for the good work
[1606.6s] I've done in restoring the walls of
[1608.6s] Jerusalem. My prayer is sometimes when
[1611.1s] you see things going south. My prayer is
[1613.4s] sometimes when you see things are not
[1614.6s] going your way just pray this God if for
[1618.0s] nothing at least for my being called
[1620.5s] your child deliver me and the Lord will
[1623.0s] come through for you. And this is
[1624.4s] exactly what happened. Read quickly from
[1626.5s] verse four. Listen to me. The Bible says
[1629.0s] I don't know church members. Are you
[1630.3s] following me? Are you in verse four now?
[1633.4s] Beautiful. Let's go to verse four. The
[1634.5s] Bible says, "So Jehoshaphat dwelt at
[1636.2s] Jerusalem, and he went out again among
[1639.0s] the people from Bashibba to the
[1640.8s] mountains of Ephraim and brought them
[1642.6s] back to the Lord of God of the fathers,
[1644.7s] and he set judges in the land throughout
[1646.8s] all the fortified cities of Judah, city
[1649.4s] by city." This is what I was talking
[1651.4s] about yesterday. And I thank God that
[1653.4s] the elders have implemented this that
[1655.6s] when they shall go out to this city in
[1657.9s] all our 39 prayer cells, they shall put
[1660.8s] an elder, those are the judges, every
[1662.8s] prayer cells and every prayer cell that
[1665.1s] God's people may be fed the word of God.
[1668.0s] That God's people may be reached, that
[1670.0s] God's people may be well grounded and
[1672.1s] firmly grounded in his word. Then the
[1673.9s] Bible says, "And he said to the
[1676.4s] judges, take heed to what you're doing,
[1679.0s] for you do not judge for man, but for
[1680.9s] the Lord. And I hear I'm saying my
[1682.7s] elders, take heed what you're doing, for
[1685.4s] you do not do it for these people, but
[1687.8s] you're doing it for the Lord who is with
[1689.8s] you also in the judgment. Now therefore,
[1693.0s] let the fear of the Lord, my elders, be
[1696.0s] upon you.
[1699.1s] Uh-oh, I'm going to repeat it one more
[1701.5s] time. Let the fear of the Lord be upon
[1706.1s] our elders. Amen. And he says, "Take
[1709.7s] care and do that work, for there is no
[1712.7s] iniquity with the Lord our God, no
[1714.8s] partiality or taking of
[1717.3s] bribes." Moreover, in Jerusalem for the
[1720.3s] judgment of the Lord and for the
[1721.5s] controversies, Jehoshaphat appointed
[1724.2s] some of the Levites and priests and some
[1726.1s] of the chief fathers of Israel. And when
[1728.2s] they returned to Jerusalem, he commanded
[1730.1s] them, saying, "Thus you shall take in
[1733.0s] the act in the fear of the Lord
[1734.8s] faithfully and be loyal at heart." Bible
[1738.0s] says, let me skip to verse 11. And take
[1740.7s] notice, Amariah, the chief priest is
[1742.4s] over you in all matters of the Lord, and
[1744.6s] Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler
[1747.4s] of the house of Judah. For all the
[1749.3s] king's matters also the Levites will be
[1751.8s] officials before you. Then this word was
[1754.7s] spoken to Jehoshaphat. And I'm speaking
[1757.4s] these words to myself and I want you to
[1761.0s] speak it to your own self. Listen to the
[1763.1s] words. Behave courageously and the Lord
[1767.5s] will be with you in goodness. Amen. Now
[1771.9s] could you kindly tell your neighbor
[1774.3s] that behave courageously and the Lord
[1779.0s] will be with you in goodness. No, no,
[1782.2s] no. I'm just Emma. If you sat next to a
[1785.0s] neighbor that has been troubling you
[1786.2s] shar but now we are in church. Can we
[1789.3s] say it together church members?
[1796.1s] Can you now tell your pastor please?
[1800.2s] Ah wait someone is telling me to
[1802.5s] misbehave. Tell your pastor please go
[1805.0s] together.
[1808.1s] Mhm.
[1810.7s] Amen. I pray to behave courageously that
[1814.0s] the Lord may be with me in my journey.
[1816.2s] Amen. Go with me to chapter 20. That is
[1818.3s] our chapter for the day. Go with me to
[1819.8s] chapter 20. Now listen to me church
[1822.8s] members. When God blesses you, enemies
[1827.4s] are not away from you. That is why our
[1831.3s] good elder read from the book of John
[1833.2s] chapter 16:33. The Bible records
[1836.8s] this. I have told you these things beo
[1840.8s] beforehand. That's John chapter
[1843.8s] 16:33. I have told you these things
[1847.6s] beforehand. Are you with me church
[1849.4s] members? I have told you these things
[1851.8s] what?
[1854.0s] Yes. And then he says that you may have
[1857.5s] peace in the world. There will be many
[1860.1s] what? Tribulation. But what does he say?
[1864.9s] Be of good cheer.
[1868.4s] You didn't say it properly. Be of good
[1869.9s] cheer.
[1872.9s] Church
[1873.8s] members, God is telling us beforehand,
[1877.4s] the pathway ahead of us might not be
[1880.0s] easy, but he tells us be of good cheer.
[1883.6s] He has overcome the world in our behalf.
[1886.0s] And so he's telling us whether it is a
[1887.8s] challenge for your family, he has gone
[1889.4s] before you and has overcome it. Whether
[1891.3s] there's a challenge with your children,
[1892.7s] he has gone before you, he has overcome
[1894.4s] it. Whether it's a challenge we have as
[1896.0s] a church, he has gone before us and we
[1897.9s] have overcome it. He has overcome it on
[1899.4s] our behalf. Be of good cheer. Church
[1901.6s] members, I wish the choir could have
[1903.9s] come up front again to sing the song.
[1905.8s] How
[1908.3s] cheery. You know that song, don't you?
[1911.8s] So the Bible says there that Amnon,
[1915.4s] Moab, and Mount Sea came against God's
[1919.0s] children. Let's read it together, church
[1920.5s] members. The Bible says it happened
[1923.0s] after this that the people of Moab with
[1925.9s] the people of Amnon and others with the
[1928.1s] besides the Ammonites came to battle
[1930.9s] against
[1933.2s] Jehoshaphat. For those of you who come
[1935.4s] to fight against God's children, here
[1938.3s] cometh your chapter. For those who think
[1941.3s] that you'll prevail over God's children,
[1943.4s] here cometh the word of God. Amen. And
[1945.9s] see the end result of it. Anybody make
[1949.4s] no mistake, New Life SDA church members,
[1953.0s] you are all protected by the hand of
[1955.5s] God. Fear not when you go out there in
[1958.3s] your workplaces. Fear not when you are
[1960.3s] there in your estates because when the
[1962.1s] enemy cometh against you, I want to let
[1964.5s] you know the battle does not belong to
[1966.6s] you. The battle belongs to the Lord.
[1968.9s] Yours is the victory. I am standing here
[1971.2s] seeing victorious children in the Jesus
[1972.9s] Jesus name. I am standing here seeing
[1975.2s] victorious new life members. It says
[1977.4s] Amnon comes against
[1981.2s] Jehoshaphat. David was a very careful
[1983.5s] man when it comes to ordained servants
[1985.4s] of God. He says they are not raise your
[1988.4s] hand upon the ordained of God. And every
[1991.4s] one of you are called ordained because
[1994.2s] you are a holy generation, a royal
[1997.1s] priesthood chosen of God. And so the
[1999.8s] Bible says, let's go quickly. The Bible
[2001.4s] says, I don't know why there's a tyranny
[2004.5s] of the clock against me. But we shall
[2007.2s] manage. Verse two, the Bible says, "Then
[2009.9s] some came and told Jehoshaphat, saying,
[2012.6s] a great multitude is coming against you
[2014.9s] from beyond the sea, from Syria, and
[2017.4s] they are in Hazon Tamar, which is the
[2019.6s] Enedi." Now listen to me, brothers and
[2021.3s] sisters. This is not coming for note. It
[2024.9s] is coming to test whether the mistake
[2028.6s] that Jehoshaphat had done in the
[2030.6s] immediate past in allying himself with
[2033.5s] the enemy and not depending upon God has
[2036.6s] left his heart. And so God throws and
[2039.1s] allows a test of time. Church members,
[2042.3s] when God allows tests to come our way,
[2044.8s] it's not because he has forsaken us, but
[2046.8s] because he wants to see whether we still
[2049.0s] stand on his statutes. There is a song
[2051.8s] that says this. Standing on the promises
[2054.5s] of Christ my king through his ages led.
[2060.2s] Oh glory
[2064.5s] doing what? Standing.
[2068.7s] So God allows this enemy to come to
[2072.4s] prove whether Jehoshaphat and the entire
[2076.1s] nation of Israel or Judah will be on his
[2078.4s] statutes. Listen to verse verse three.
[2080.2s] The Bible says, "And Jehoshaphat did
[2082.9s] what?"
[2084.7s] Now listen to me, brothers and sisters.
[2086.6s] What did Jehoshaphat do?
[2089.8s] He feared and set himself to seek the
[2093.0s] Lord and proclaimed a fast throughout
[2095.5s] all
[2096.6s] Judah. The verse starts very badly. I
[2100.5s] thank God it ends very
[2102.5s] well because in the middle the prophet
[2105.3s] comes and says, "Fear thou not." He
[2109.0s] feared. Sometimes, brothers and sisters,
[2111.4s] when our heads of departments, when our
[2113.2s] directors, when some people come against
[2115.8s] us, even telling you to work on Sabbath,
[2118.5s] what comes first in your heart?
[2120.8s] Fear. But I'm here to let you know,
[2123.3s] child of God and child of the king, fear
[2126.1s] thou not, for the Lord is with you. And
[2129.8s] so, Jehoshaphat feared, but I thank God
[2132.0s] for the latter part of the verse. The
[2133.1s] Bible says that he sought the Lord.
[2135.6s] Church members always have a tendency to
[2137.7s] seek the Lord. Have a tendency to seek
[2139.8s] the Lord in everything. A job has come
[2141.8s] your way. Seek the Lord whether it is
[2143.7s] meant for you. A vankasy has come along
[2145.8s] the way. Seek the Lord to see whether it
[2147.5s] is meant for you. You know I I don't
[2149.4s] know why I said it. I think I told the
[2150.8s] young people when we went to Arouchia
[2152.5s] that one time our chaplain in my uh my
[2155.2s] my my my institution
[2157.8s] abroad prayed to God to bless him with
[2160.7s] what? A wife. He was a young pastor. And
[2163.5s] so when the L he prayed, he tell God,
[2165.4s] please God, allow that whoever comes has
[2168.2s] hair that goes backwards and they pull
[2171.1s] it there and make sure that they dress
[2173.4s] that goes down because there has to be a
[2174.7s] pastor's wife and make sure that they're
[2176.4s] likely like this. He told God all those
[2178.3s] things. Church members when he stood to
[2181.0s] preach that day, the Lord answered his
[2183.0s] prayer. But of the features he had given
[2185.5s] God, there were how many ladies? Four.
[2190.8s] Question to the church. Had God answered
[2193.1s] his prayer by bringing all the four of
[2195.2s] them? Guys, someone is saying
[2199.3s] yes. PK, I hope this didn't come from
[2203.0s] you. This is what I want to say. Church
[2205.3s] members, there are instances when we
[2207.6s] pray to the Lord and he answers our
[2209.8s] prayer and he brings what we have asked
[2211.8s] of him. But the enemy knoweth what the
[2214.1s] desires of our hearts are and he also
[2216.1s] brings some answers to us. When you're
[2218.8s] not keen to wait upon him, you may make
[2221.1s] a mistake and go with the things that
[2223.4s] God has not given you. So wait upon the
[2227.3s] Lord. And I say again, wait upon the
[2230.0s] Lord. And so the Bible says in verse
[2232.0s] four, so Judah, sorry, where was I? Yes,
[2234.7s] verse four. So he proclaimed a fast
[2237.0s] throughout all Judah. I thank God today
[2240.6s] we have a fast this afternoon. And as
[2244.2s] Elder Chuka will lead us through, I pray
[2246.5s] in this first Sabbath of this month, we
[2249.1s] may go before the Lord that he may give
[2251.4s] us the desires of our hearts. The Bible
[2254.0s] says they proclaimed a fast. So Judah,
[2256.5s] gather together to ask help from the
[2258.2s] Lord. Church members, whenever we will
[2260.2s] have any trouble, let us gather
[2261.8s] together. Gather together. There's a
[2263.2s] song that goes like this. We gather
[2265.8s] together to ask.
[2269.7s] He chastens and hastens his will to make
[2273.8s] known the wicked
[2277.0s] oppressing. See from distressing his
[2280.9s] praises his name. He forgets not his
[2285.0s] own. Church members let never allow us
[2287.8s] to drift apart. Allow us to always
[2289.6s] gather together. Don't drift apart in
[2292.2s] whichever way. Whether it is caliber or
[2294.3s] class, whether it is tribe A, tribe B.
[2296.8s] Brothers and sisters, God has made of
[2299.3s] all nations one through the blood of
[2300.8s] Christ Jesus. Gather together. Gather
[2303.8s] together. And so John and so all Judah
[2306.5s] gather together. The moment we will
[2308.4s] begin church member to split into
[2310.3s] certain groups here and there, groups
[2311.9s] here and there. In the afternoon, during
[2313.8s] the evening, we gather into groups here
[2315.5s] and there. That is the beginning of
[2317.8s] allowing the enemy to creep in and bring
[2319.9s] us down. Gather together, church
[2321.8s] members. Is somebody hearing what I'm
[2323.3s] saying? Gather together. Some people are
[2325.6s] feared because they see us gathering
[2327.4s] together in certain corners. Gathering
[2329.1s] together in certain corners and speaking
[2331.0s] of our own. I pray gather together.
[2334.1s] Gather together and speak of the Lord's
[2336.1s] own. Gather together. So the Bible says
[2339.1s] Judah gathered together to ask help from
[2341.4s] the Lord. And from all the cities of
[2343.0s] Judah, they came to seek the Lord. Then
[2345.0s] the Bible says, "Then Jehoshaphat stood
[2347.4s] in the assembly of Judah and
[2350.4s] Jerusalem in the house of the Lord
[2353.2s] before the new court and said, listen to
[2356.2s] verse six." "Oh Lord, God of our
[2358.7s] fathers, are you not God in heaven? And
[2362.2s] do you not rule over all the kingdoms of
[2364.2s] the nations? And in your hand is there
[2366.4s] not power, not might so that no one is
[2369.9s] able to withstand you?"
[2373.2s] I sing the mighty power of God that made
[2376.7s] the mountains to do
[2378.8s] what? He's reminding God of who he is
[2383.4s] and whom they are and who they belong
[2387.0s] to. Are you not God? Are you not? Verse
[2389.8s] seven, our God. Oh, listen to me. I'm
[2393.8s] sorry. I may have to use this example
[2395.4s] again. One time when I was wooing my
[2398.5s] wife when she was my girlfriend
[2400.8s] sometimes teasing her here and there. I
[2403.4s] remember her telling me that excuse me I
[2406.1s] am a daughter of the most
[2414.4s] high. I thank God she believed and she
[2418.5s] knew who she was and whom she belonged
[2421.2s] to. But I did not forget also I reminded
[2425.0s] her, excuse me, I'm also a son of the
[2427.9s] king.
[2429.4s] This is what I'm reminding New Life
[2431.0s] Church members every now and again when
[2433.0s] you come into this church and get out.
[2435.0s] Don't you ever forget who you are. You
[2437.2s] are a son and daughter of the most high.
[2439.4s] Amen. Don't ever lower your standard.
[2441.8s] Don't ever despise or despite your
[2444.6s] standard. You are a daughter of God. He
[2447.4s] says to God, "Are you not our what? our
[2451.3s] God. Then the Bible says, "Are you not
[2453.5s] our God who drove out the inhabitants of
[2455.4s] this land before you, your people
[2457.4s] Israel, and gave it to the descendants
[2459.2s] of Abraham your friend? And they dwell
[2461.6s] in it and have built you a sanctuary in
[2464.2s] it for your name." See, I want to leave
[2466.7s] it there and say this. Sometimes some of
[2468.8s] you are feared where your feet are here
[2471.3s] today. Sometimes some of you are feared.
[2473.7s] You thought you are squatters here. Some
[2475.7s] of us you have feared. You think you
[2478.0s] want to move away. I'm here today to
[2479.8s] declare to you, fear thou not God has
[2482.2s] placed you here.
[2485.0s] There are people who may not understand
[2486.4s] this, but brethren, it is Joshua who was
[2489.9s] told, "Where your feet have laid, claim
[2492.6s] it, and it will belong to you." Claim it
[2495.9s] and it will belong to you. Fear thou
[2497.8s] not. says verse 9, "If disaster comes
[2500.1s] upon
[2501.4s] us, sword, judgment, pestilence, or
[2503.9s] famine, we will stand before this temple
[2506.1s] and your presence. For your name is in
[2507.9s] this temple and cry out to you in our
[2510.2s] affliction, and you will hear and save."
[2512.2s] And now here are the people of Amno,
[2514.5s] Moab, and Mount Sea, whom you would not
[2517.6s] let Israel invade them. They came out of
[2520.9s] land of Egypt, but they turned from them
[2523.7s] and did not destroy them. Here they are.
[2526.3s] Here are our enemies rewarding us by
[2529.0s] coming to throw us out of your
[2530.6s] possession which you have given us to
[2532.9s] inherit. Church members, are you hearing
[2535.3s] that? Who has given you this place to
[2538.5s] inherit? No, you don't know what you're
[2540.6s] saying. Who has given us this place to
[2542.2s] inherit? Let no enemy come to approot
[2545.1s] you from here in Jesus name. So he says
[2548.3s] here they are and they rewarding us by
[2551.2s] coming to throw us out of your
[2552.4s] possession which you have given us to
[2553.7s] inherit. Then he prays this and says,
[2556.1s] "Oh our God, will you not judge them?
[2559.7s] For we have no power against this great
[2561.7s] multitude that is coming against us, nor
[2563.8s] do we know what to do, but our eyes are
[2566.9s] upon you." Church members, turn your
[2570.8s] eyes upon
[2574.6s] Look, look full in his
[2579.5s] and the things
[2588.7s] in the light of his glory. And church
[2594.2s] members, when the enemy comes against
[2596.5s] you, church members, when troubles
[2598.3s] assail you, church members, when the
[2600.3s] storm comes your way, fix your eyes upon
[2603.3s] the Lord and all the things of earth
[2606.0s] shall
[2607.5s] grow. That the Bible says, "Our eyes are
[2610.5s] upon you." Now all Judah with their
[2614.8s] little ones, their wives and their
[2617.4s] children stood before the Lord. This is
[2621.1s] a verse I would use for family life. But
[2623.4s] allow me to say this. New life members,
[2626.6s] all new life members with their husbands
[2629.5s] and their wives and their little
[2631.0s] children, we shall stand before the
[2633.0s] Lord. It is our desire church members to
[2636.2s] continue to stand before the Lord. So
[2638.5s] the Bible says all of them. All of them.
[2641.0s] Then the spirit of the Lord came upon
[2643.7s] Jahaziel the son of Zechariah the son of
[2646.4s] Baniah the son of Giel the son of
[2648.6s] Mataniah a Levite of the sons of Asaf in
[2651.5s] the midst of the assembly. And he said
[2653.6s] listen to this blessing as I come to a
[2655.2s] conclusion. The Bible says listen all
[2657.6s] you of Judah and your inhabitants of
[2660.2s] Jerusalem and you
[2663.5s] Jehoshaphat. Thus says the Lord to you
[2667.5s] church members. Read it with me.
[2671.0s] Read it again.
[2673.9s] Read it again.
[2677.4s] Be not afraid nor
[2681.2s] dismayed. Because of this great what?
[2684.5s] Multitude. Why?
[2690.2s] Church members. Repeat it again. For the
[2692.1s] battle is whose?
[2694.5s] It is not ours, but it belongs to who?
[2697.6s] God. I wished we can say this and echo
[2700.8s] it in our hearts and minds again and
[2702.4s] again. It says, "Be not thou afraid
[2705.2s] because the battle is not ours but
[2706.7s] God's." It only says this, and this is
[2709.3s] where I picked up my sermon title. Go
[2712.2s] forward amidst the obstacles. The Bible
[2714.8s] says in verse 16, "Tomorrow, go down
[2718.1s] against them. They will surely come up
[2720.9s] by the ascent of a disease and you will
[2723.1s] find them at the end of the brook before
[2725.0s] the wilderness of Jeru. Listen to me
[2726.9s] church members. Sometimes we pray and we
[2729.2s] want God to remove the oppos obstacles.
[2731.2s] Sometimes we pray and we want him to
[2733.0s] remove our troubles or the husband has
[2735.4s] been drifting away. We want the we
[2737.3s] always want obstacles removed. Church
[2739.9s] members, someone has ever said this. If
[2742.1s] the mountain was smooth, we could not
[2745.2s] climb it. There's got to be obstacles
[2747.8s] along the way that we may climb up that
[2749.8s] mountain. I remember climbing up Mount
[2751.5s] Si with my wife. We had a challenge
[2753.5s] going up. We had to wake up at 3 in the
[2755.8s] night. As we were going up Mount Si, it
[2758.0s] reached a moment her strength was over
[2760.5s] and she had to get a camel on top until
[2763.7s] 5:45 in the morning with all the
[2766.3s] obstacles. We were there at the very
[2768.6s] helm of Mount Si and it is the sunrise
[2771.3s] that welcomed us. And we were right at
[2773.1s] the place where Moses was given the ten
[2775.2s] commandments even with the obstacles. Go
[2778.2s] forward because the Lord is with you.
[2781.3s] Are you with me church members? He said
[2783.9s] go forward. They will come but let them
[2787.8s] come. The Bible says tomorrow go
[2789.4s] forward. You will not need to fight in
[2791.7s] this battle. Position yourselves. Stand
[2795.0s] still and see the salvation of the Lord.
[2797.3s] Who is with you? I thank God because
[2799.4s] there are women and mothers who will
[2801.7s] position themselves tonight in Kesha and
[2805.0s] stand still and see the salvation of the
[2807.1s] Lord for this church and beyond.
[2809.1s] Position yourself. Church members,
[2811.1s] remind your neighbor, always position
[2813.2s] yourself.
[2816.1s] Now, positioning yourself is not putting
[2817.8s] your fists up and
[2820.0s] saying positioning yourself is when
[2822.6s] trouble comes, position yourself.
[2824.6s] Positioning yourself is when trouble
[2826.5s] comes, you claim the promises.
[2828.3s] Positioning yourself is always being by
[2830.0s] the Lord's side. Allow me to go quickly.
[2831.7s] The Bible says, "And
[2834.4s] Jehoshaphat." All
[2836.4s] right. Which verse am I,
[2838.8s] church? Are we in 18? And Jehoshaphat
[2842.1s] bowed his head with his face to the
[2843.7s] ground. And all Judah and the
[2845.0s] inhabitants of Jerusalem did what? Bowed
[2847.6s] before the Lord, worshiping the Lord.
[2849.7s] Then the Levites of the children of
[2850.9s] Kohatites and the children of Koratites
[2852.9s] stood up to praise the Lord God of
[2854.3s] Israel with voices loud and high. So
[2858.0s] they rose early in the morning and went
[2860.1s] out in the wilderness of Teor. And as
[2862.2s] they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and
[2865.1s] said these
[2867.0s] words. And this is the pillar of
[2870.8s] Adventism. It says this here, O Israel,
[2876.6s] and you inhabitants of
[2880.0s] Jerusalem, two things. Believe in the
[2883.6s] Lord your God, and you shall be
[2887.5s] established. Number two, believe in the
[2891.3s] prophets and you shall what? Prosper. I
[2895.0s] am here today. I wished I had time, but
[2898.3s] allow me to tell the members of this
[2900.3s] church today. When we shall go back and
[2904.7s] remain in the foundation of God's word,
[2907.5s] he shall establish our thoughts.
[2910.2s] Believe in the Lord your
[2913.4s] God, and you shall be established.
[2916.8s] Church members, believe in the
[2920.1s] prophets, and you shall prosper.
[2924.0s] Prosperity comes our way when we believe
[2927.4s] in his prophets. Listen to me. When God
[2930.3s] wanted to turn things in the
[2931.9s] anti-delivian world, he sent Noah the
[2935.0s] prophet. When he wanted to have a nation
[2938.2s] that the world may see his goodness, he
[2940.6s] sent father Abraham as a prophet. When
[2943.8s] he realized that this nation is
[2946.0s] beginning to go astray, he began sending
[2948.7s] prophets to them. The major prophets and
[2951.0s] the minor prophets. Talk of Jeremiah and
[2953.0s] Elijah. Talk of Elisha and talk of
[2955.0s] Micah. Talk of all of them. Ezekiel and
[2957.6s] the others. He sent them. But when he
[2959.4s] realized that they have gone astray even
[2961.8s] by sending the prophets, he said, "I'm
[2964.2s] sending my son himself first as a
[2966.2s] prophet." So Jesus comes as a prophets.
[2968.6s] And he says, "They have killed my
[2969.8s] servants, the prophets. I'm going to
[2971.1s] come myself." And so he comes. But when
[2973.4s] he come and he ministers as a prophet,
[2975.6s] they also killed his son. Brothers and
[2978.2s] sisters, this has continued for the
[2979.6s] dispensations of the seven churches
[2981.4s] right from Ephesus to Simna, from
[2983.5s] Pagamos to Thira all the way to Sardi
[2985.8s] and Philadelphia and lastly to Laakia.
[2988.7s] They have gone all through like that.
[2990.6s] But thank God because he realizes he
[2993.7s] wants his children to have the glimpse
[2995.4s] of heaven. He has sent a prophet called
[2998.2s] Ellen G. White.
[3001.1s] Listen to me church members. Believe in
[3003.4s] her also and we shall prosper. Oh, I see
[3006.6s] the testimonies that have been written
[3008.0s] to us. Oh, I see those that we call the
[3012.0s] first five books. What do we call
[3014.2s] there's a name that we call them the
[3016.6s] conflict series. All those books, there
[3019.3s] was a time when they were in our homes.
[3021.1s] There's a time when they were being read
[3022.6s] nicely. There's a time when we are
[3024.1s] quoting them nicely. I am here to urge
[3026.4s] us back again to believing in the
[3028.6s] prophet of the end because from then we
[3032.0s] shall prosper. believe in the prophets.
[3035.0s] And guess what church members? We have
[3037.0s] been put in the pillars of these
[3038.6s] prophets. How so? There are five S's
[3042.7s] that we the Adventist church pride
[3045.7s] ourself in from this prophet and the
[3048.1s] prophets that have come before her. The
[3050.2s] first S is the sanctuary message made
[3052.9s] clear where his son Jesus now ever
[3055.0s] liveth to intercede for us as a high
[3056.9s] priest. Believe in the prophet. The
[3059.0s] second S the Sabbath. reform in our
[3062.6s] Sabbath and the blessing full shall come
[3065.5s] our way. The third S salvation. Brothers
[3068.6s] and sisters, salvation has been made
[3070.0s] simple and it has been understood
[3072.1s] differently. You know there are people
[3073.9s] today whom when they meet you they say I
[3075.5s] am saved and the Lord is the God of my
[3077.8s] life. Remind them that salvation is in
[3080.4s] three faces. We were saved. We are being
[3083.1s] saved and we are looking forward for the
[3084.7s] Lord Jesus to come and save us. It is
[3086.8s] salvation in three faces made simple.
[3089.0s] Then the fourth S is S O P the spiritual
[3092.5s] prophecy as our guide the lesser light
[3094.8s] to bring back to the Bible truth. And
[3096.8s] then the last is the second coming the
[3098.8s] very pillar of Adventist which is the
[3100.8s] climax of it all and our hope of the
[3103.0s] sojon ahead of us before Jesus comes
[3105.2s] again. Believe the Lord your God and you
[3108.4s] shall be established. Believe in the
[3110.5s] prophets and we shall prosper. Now
[3113.4s] listen to me church members. when he had
[3116.8s] consulted with the people church members
[3119.8s] the word underlined there is
[3122.0s] what I want to repeat it again the name
[3125.0s] underlined in verse 21 is
[3127.5s] what consultation there is a time here
[3130.2s] in this country this this name here this
[3132.6s] word here brought a problem there's a
[3134.9s] leader who said I was not called consult
[3137.9s] you know him I don't want to mention it
[3139.4s] but let me say this in your homes
[3141.8s] consult with your wives consult with
[3143.7s] your husbands in our church, let us
[3145.9s] leave to consult one with another. With
[3148.3s] our children, let's consult with them in
[3150.6s] the fear of the Lord. When he consulted
[3153.3s] with the people, he appointed those who
[3155.4s] should sing to the Lord, and we should
[3157.2s] praise the beauty of the holiness. As
[3158.9s] they went out before the army and was
[3160.7s] saying, "Praise the Lord, for his mercy
[3163.1s] endures forever." I like verse 22.
[3165.5s] Listen to me, church
[3166.8s] members. When they began to sing and to
[3171.3s] praise, what did the Lord do?
[3175.8s] when they began to sing. Now this is the
[3177.7s] verse that I normally use for music
[3179.1s] Sabbaths. It says do your bit just begin
[3183.2s] singing and the Lord will set his
[3185.6s] ambush. I remember one time when we were
[3188.0s] doing a crusade in some particular place
[3189.8s] and you were faced with a particular
[3191.4s] calamity of a witchcraft who was making
[3193.6s] people fear in that particular village.
[3195.4s] I don't want to go to the entire story
[3196.6s] but allow me to say one thing. It
[3198.3s] reached the moment one of our uh pioneer
[3201.4s] lay members I know he has been preaching
[3202.9s] in this church before is called Elder
[3204.5s] Gong. He told us you fellows let us sing
[3207.5s] and we shall see what will happen to
[3209.0s] that witchcraft in that house. So we
[3210.4s] started singing would you be free from
[3212.7s] the burden of sin. There's power in the
[3214.3s] what? In the blood. We found ourselves
[3217.4s] entering the house of a
[3219.2s] witchcraft whom nobody has ever entered
[3222.1s] there. And when we knocked the door, it
[3224.4s] was Elong knocking. And when we knocked
[3226.7s] that door, the woman came out with her
[3229.0s] mouth agape. Who on earth dared come in
[3232.7s] here? And before she knew it, Elder led
[3236.5s] us in saying, "Today salvation has come
[3240.0s] in this house." And as we sang that
[3242.9s] song, this woman quickly goes into her
[3245.9s] inside room and picks up some things and
[3248.5s] brings them out there. Church members,
[3250.7s] allow me to tell you that you have never
[3252.3s] smelled bad
[3254.0s] odor. We held our mouths and people who
[3257.0s] had followed us out there held their
[3259.0s] monasteries because of the things that
[3261.2s] she had prepared. But God helped us as
[3264.3s] we continued to sing. She was there as
[3267.1s] if asking Elder to open the matchbox and
[3269.8s] light these things. And Elder said, "We
[3271.5s] don't work with the enemy. Lit them
[3273.3s] yourself." We continued singing. She lit
[3276.1s] the things. That evening she joined us
[3278.5s] in the crusade and people who had not
[3281.0s] come for an entire two weeks in the
[3283.0s] third week they came we baptized 154.
[3287.0s] Sing songs and the Lord shall set
[3288.6s] ambushes for you. Sing songs and he'll
[3291.4s] bring breakthroughs for you. The Bible
[3293.0s] says when they began to
[3296.2s] sing and to praise the Lord, he set
[3299.2s] ambushes against the people of Amnon,
[3301.0s] Moab, and Mount Sea who had come against
[3303.7s] Judah. And they were what? church
[3305.4s] members
[3306.8s] defeated. Listen to me. For the people
[3310.2s] of Amnon did these things. Amnon and
[3313.5s] Moab stood up against the inhabitants of
[3315.5s] Mount Seir to utterly kill and destroy
[3317.7s] them. And they heard made an inhabitants
[3320.3s] of end of Sea. Please church members
[3322.6s] stand. Stand stand with me. Stand with
[3323.8s] me because I want to conclude. Stand
[3325.2s] with me. Listen. Amnon, Moab and Mount
[3328.8s] Sea had come against Judah and
[3331.2s] Jehoshaphat. And God had laid set
[3334.1s] ambushes against them. But listen to
[3336.5s] what now is
[3337.6s] happening. Instead of fighting
[3340.8s] Jehoshaphat, they begin to fight
[3343.9s] themselves. Please members never fight
[3347.4s] your enemies. The Lord will fight them
[3350.6s] in your behalf. They came fighting
[3353.6s] Jehoshaphat. They started fighting one
[3355.7s] another. Amnon and Moab came together
[3358.8s] and they put Mount Sia down. And guess
[3361.9s] what? That is not an end. When Mount Sia
[3364.7s] had been finished, Amnon and
[3367.3s] Moab, they hammered each other and they
[3370.6s] all ended. All that the children of
[3373.4s] Israel had to do is to stand and watch
[3376.2s] and see the spoil. But that's not the
[3379.4s] end of it. God took them down in the
[3382.0s] place called the Valley of Baraka where
[3384.6s] the Swahili have picked the name Baraka.
[3387.4s] They went to the valley of Baraka. And
[3390.0s] guess what? For four good days, they
[3393.7s] were only collecting the spoil and
[3395.8s] collecting the spoil for four good days.
[3399.5s] Church members, when your enemy will
[3401.4s] come against you, allow the Lord to
[3403.2s] fight, yours is to pick the blessings
[3404.9s] for four good days. For four good days,
[3407.4s] they picked the blessings. I am praying
[3409.4s] church members that for the next four to
[3412.7s] five years of our strategic plan be
[3415.2s] there at the valley of Baraka and we
[3418.2s] shall be counting the
[3419.9s] blessings. Count your blessings. Name
[3423.3s] them.
[3440.1s] [Music]
[3445.4s] It will surprise you indeed what the
[3447.3s] Lord has done. For a good student who's
[3449.1s] been following me, you know that I've
[3450.2s] cut down my sermon. Verse 28, the Bible
[3452.2s] says, "So they came to Jerusalem with
[3454.2s] stringed instruments and harps and
[3456.0s] trumpets to the house of the Lord." In
[3457.7s] verse 29, and the fear of God was on all
[3461.8s] kingdoms of all countries, when they
[3464.9s] heard that the Lord had fought against
[3467.5s] the enemies of Israel, church members,
[3471.0s] may the fear of the Lord remain upon
[3472.9s] this church when they shall hear that
[3475.4s] the Lord has taken up our battles. May
[3478.5s] the fear of the Lord reign upon us
[3480.3s] church members when they shall know that
[3482.4s] God's presence is here with us. You
[3484.6s] know, we have seven kinds of fear. Thank
[3487.1s] God the Lord says, "Fear thou not." You
[3489.4s] know the fear, the fears that we have.
[3491.3s] Fear number one, the fear of death. Fear
[3493.6s] number two, the fear of harm. Fear
[3495.7s] number three, the fear of the unknown.
[3497.6s] Fear number four, the fear of social
[3499.7s] rejection. Fear number five, the fear of
[3502.1s] God's wrath. Fear number six, the fear
[3504.6s] of physical suffering. And finally, fear
[3507.0s] number seven, the fear of losing God's
[3509.8s] favor. But guess what? For
[3512.6s] 365 days the Lord says, "Fear thou not
[3519.6s] for I am with you." Church members, bow
[3523.0s] your heads with me and close your eyes.
[3540.2s] What is this that has belittled you?
[3542.4s] What is this that has despised you? What
[3544.9s] is this that has you've been struggling
[3546.6s] with either in your workplace or in your
[3549.8s] homes? What is this that has made you
[3551.9s] have so much fear? Today through the
[3554.4s] life of Jehoshaphat, we have been
[3556.0s] reminded, fear thou not. Go forward
[3561.4s] amidst the tribulations that will come
[3563.4s] our way. The Lord has said, "I have told
[3566.2s] you these things
[3567.5s] beforehand that you may have peace in
[3570.5s] the world. There shall be lots of
[3572.4s] tribulation, but I have overcome the
[3574.6s] world." I pray to God that you may know
[3577.4s] that you're victorious even before you
[3579.4s] enter into this battle because the
[3581.5s] battle is not yours. The battle belongs
[3583.8s] to the Lord. Allow me to ask one person
[3586.5s] to come here to pray with me. He who
[3589.4s] thinks that they have heard a challenge
[3593.8s] of drug addiction either in their home
[3596.1s] states from one member, please come that
[3599.1s] we may pray together. Someone is in not
[3602.0s] only drug addiction, someone is in some
[3603.7s] chains of some kind troubled by your
[3607.3s] directors and department heads or
[3608.9s] whatever it is today victory belongs to
[3612.2s] you. Come that we may pray together.
[3614.7s] There are those who have wanted their
[3616.0s] families together. There are those who
[3617.8s] have asked that the Lord may come
[3619.2s] through for them in many ways and you
[3621.1s] desire for victory. Today I'm here to
[3623.8s] announce the Lord shall set an ambush
[3627.0s] against your enemies. Come, come.
[3638.7s] I'm going to ask Pastor Chanda to come
[3640.8s] kindly and uh help me to pray with this
[3644.4s] line. Softly and
[3648.6s] tender
[3650.4s] Jesus is
[3653.1s] calling
[3655.0s] calling for you and for me.
[3664.3s] It's beautiful. He is great
[3670.1s] in watching for for you and for
[3677.0s] me. Lord, come
[3680.5s] [Music]
[3681.9s] home. Come
[3686.8s] home. Ye who are
[3690.7s] weary, come home.
[3694.5s] [Music]
[3697.8s] Oh,
[3700.0s] tenderly
[3701.6s] Jesus is
[3704.6s] calling calling.
[3707.8s] [Music]
[3710.3s] Let's go to the second stance. People
[3711.9s] keep streaming in.
[3726.6s] for
[3734.3s] me. He's waiting and
[3739.2s] watching, watching for you and for me.
[3747.8s] Come
[3750.9s] home. Come
[3755.9s] home. He who are weary come
[3761.2s] [Music]
[3764.7s] home
[3766.7s] unestly, tenderly.
[3770.4s] Jesus is
[3773.4s] calling
[3775.0s] calling. Oh
[3777.3s] s come.
[3779.9s] Thank you very much. Thank
[3781.8s] you. And I'm praying for those of you
[3783.8s] who stood out
[3786.0s] there resume our worships in our homes
[3790.4s] and God shall establish us. Amen. I pray
[3794.1s] that you may return back the prophet of
[3797.0s] the Lord back in your homes and you
[3799.1s] shall prosper. Amen. Let us read the
[3802.8s] spirit of prophecy books and be grounded
[3805.9s] in them. And let us have the faith that
[3808.6s] God has handed over to us by the saints
[3811.6s] and we shall prosper as a church. Let us
[3813.9s] all bow our heads, close our eyes. My
[3816.3s] pastor will pray for this team that has
[3817.8s] come here. I'll pray for you and say the
[3819.6s] benediction.
[3821.4s] For those of you who are up front,
[3822.6s] please kneel. It's
[3826.9s] knee. Shall we
[3830.2s] pray? Oh, Father and God,
[3832.9s] we come here in humility, in your
[3836.1s] presence, where we've been reminded that
[3837.6s] in your presence is fullness of
[3840.2s] joy. We came here with our cares. We
[3843.5s] came here with our struggles. Lord, we
[3846.2s] thank you for the message that has
[3847.5s] reminded that we can be positioned and
[3850.5s] to see your
[3852.0s] salvation. We have positioned ourself
[3855.6s] while kneeling
[3857.0s] down. We have positioned ourselves while
[3860.6s] standing and some while seated because
[3864.7s] we have realized that this this kind of
[3867.2s] battle is not ours. It's yours. Father,
[3870.2s] we've come here with our fears, knowing
[3873.3s] that Lord, by faith you can turn
[3875.0s] everything
[3876.0s] around. We want to believe in you, God,
[3879.0s] because we've been reminded that you can
[3881.1s] establish us, Lord. We've come here to
[3884.3s] believe in the prophets because you know
[3886.3s] we can find prosperity in our lives.
[3888.8s] Lord, Father, whatever we have come here
[3892.5s] waiting to engage and to receive from
[3895.2s] you, we believe it has been granted.
[3898.1s] Father, we have come here standing the
[3900.3s] mids of prayer, not just for ourselves,
[3902.0s] but on behalf of our brothers and
[3903.8s] sisters. It's been years and seasons of
[3907.0s] doubting your men's servants. It's been
[3909.4s] seasons of heartbreaks and failures
[3912.6s] wondering if we can anything good can
[3915.0s] come out of this. But Lord, we thank you
[3917.3s] because we we are coming back to you.
[3920.1s] We've returned to you from our
[3922.8s] addictions. We've returned to you from
[3925.8s] all kinds of sin. trusting and believing
[3928.5s] Lord you can reverse everything around
[3930.9s] and father because you've registered
[3932.7s] your presence in this place and even in
[3934.9s] the virtual space I plead with you that
[3937.7s] Lord let your children be set free that
[3940.9s] as we stand on behalf of our brothers
[3943.0s] who've struggled with
[3945.0s] alcoholism father they will never love
[3947.5s] the test again as we stand on behalf of
[3950.9s] our sibling or even ourselves who are in
[3953.2s] addictions of drug will be set free
[3955.7s] through this month Lord
[3957.4s] Lord, I pray for those who struggling
[3959.4s] with also mental illness. Lord, that
[3962.2s] this month may not just be a reminder,
[3964.2s] but it can be also a a chance that all
[3968.4s] of us may be set free. Because we've
[3970.7s] been reminded again through the verses
[3972.4s] that in the book of John 16:33 that yes,
[3976.1s] we can be of good cheer because you've
[3978.1s] overcome the world. What is this thing
[3980.5s] that your children have been expecting
[3982.2s] today? What is this thing that Lord,
[3984.3s] they've been holding on? We surrender at
[3987.4s] your cross at your feet. Lord, the Lord
[3989.4s] set us free. Father, we've been reminded
[3992.1s] the Lord. Yes. As your people went
[3995.6s] around waiting day to receive the spoils
[3999.2s] in the place of blessings, they returned
[4001.6s] back in joy. We are convinced that at
[4005.0s] the end of this experience, you will
[4007.0s] return in joy because of what you have
[4009.6s] done and what you're about to do.
[4011.8s] Father, I want to pray for this
[4013.5s] congregation. You've sent servants to
[4016.8s] serve in this place several times. But
[4019.3s] today again, you've led us with the
[4021.2s] three new pastors and your man's servant
[4023.9s] has spoken. He's broken the bread the
[4026.3s] way you wanted it to be done. Lord, I
[4028.4s] pray that Lord, you may favor him. That
[4030.6s] his presence in this place may bring
[4033.0s] around a turn around this church. That
[4034.9s] new life may be a place of worship. The
[4037.3s] Lord will no longer live as the old
[4039.7s] times. The Lord will include you and
[4042.4s] have you be heard and be known. That
[4045.2s] your message and the word will be spoken
[4047.5s] from this pullpit that will bring around
[4049.6s] a turnaround on everyone who will watch
[4051.3s] from various places. Everyone who will
[4053.4s] walk in here will discover that Lord
[4055.4s] only your presence is here. So bless
[4057.8s] your man's servant with his family that
[4060.0s] the message you've set for him and the
[4061.8s] ministry you've put in his life from
[4063.3s] this season will help him walk day by
[4065.9s] day. That he doesn't need to fear
[4068.4s] because God, you're with him. Amen.
[4070.6s] Thank you for helping him stand firm in
[4073.8s] your word. For the reminder that we need
[4076.0s] to go back to the early church where
[4078.3s] they sought your word in truth. Father,
[4080.5s] I ask you that Lord, may you be
[4082.3s] glorified in this place. I just want to
[4084.6s] ask also, Lord, that you may remember
[4085.9s] your children here. Some have come here
[4088.2s] struggling with finances, wondering
[4090.4s] where they'll get food, their finances.
[4092.9s] Some have come here waiting for
[4095.2s] something for so long, maybe
[4096.3s] unemployment, wondering whether God,
[4098.1s] you're listening. But I thank you
[4100.1s] through the message of today that Lord
[4102.2s] you you are working out from seasons.
[4105.0s] You're working through generations that
[4107.2s] as the Israelites faced difficulties
[4110.2s] they forgot about you but father you
[4112.6s] never gave up on them because eventually
[4114.8s] had their prayers we are trusting you
[4117.0s] Lord that you'll open even wombs Lord
[4119.1s] for those who've been waiting for
[4120.5s] probably a child Lord you'll favor them
[4123.0s] today and they'll testify of how you are
[4125.8s] able to grant them children. And for
[4128.3s] those who were waiting for spouse Lord
[4130.0s] you'll give them the right spouse that
[4131.7s] will honor you. For those who are
[4133.3s] waiting for breakthrough in every area
[4135.4s] of the life Lord they will believe that
[4137.0s] God you did it today. And father
[4139.0s] whatever burden your children have
[4140.4s] brought today in this place and those
[4142.6s] who are standing there father visit with
[4144.7s] us. And as we continue to even engage
[4148.3s] through the days of worship, Father, may
[4151.1s] it be say the Lord we drew you closer to
[4153.8s] you. May be say the Lord you want us for
[4156.5s] you. May it be said that this place
[4159.0s] brought a turnar around. Thank you for
[4161.2s] your man's servant once again and those
[4163.4s] who minister today. May the worship that
[4166.5s] was granted today since morning not be
[4169.1s] in vain but it may work out something in
[4172.5s] our hearts and we may leave here with
[4175.0s] victory. We pray the Lord you've heard
[4177.7s] an answer in Jesus name. Amen. Be not
[4181.4s] dismayed.
[4183.4s] Whatever be
[4185.7s] tied, God will take care